D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors We rely on the oil and natural gas industry, and volatile oil and natural gas activity impacts demand for our services. Demand for our services depends on activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. The level of exploration, development and production activity is affected by factors such as: • prevailing oil and natural gas prices; • expectations about future prices and price volatility; • cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; • demand for petroleum products; • current availability of oil and natural gas resources; • rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • local and international political, environmental and economic conditions; • technological advances; and • ability of oil and natural gas companies to obtain leases, permits or obtain funds for capital. The level of offshore exploration, development and production activity have historically been characterized by volatility. The oil and gas drilling industry is cyclical, and the industry has entered into a down cycle. Crude oil prices have fallen during the past year. The price of Brent crude has fallen from over $100 per barrel in March 2014, to approximately $40 per barrel as of March 22, 2016. In response to the recent decrease in the prices of oil and gas, budgeted expenditures for offshore drilling have decreased. A decline in exploration and development of offshore areas may result in a decline in the demand for our offshore marine services. Also, a current risk on the demand side is the reaction of the oil companies to the current high cost level for exploration and production and the low price of oil and natural gas. Oil companies are holding back new contracts for drilling rigs and this may eventually lead to reduced utilization of the rig fleet and platform supply vessels, or PSVs. In addition, there is a risk that the worldwide PSV fleet will increase more than the demand for such vessels. Any such decrease in activity or increase in worldwide fleet growth that surpasses demand is likely to reduce our day rates and our utilization rates and, therefore, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 An increase in the supply of PSVs would likely have a negative effect on charter rates for our vessels, which could reduce our earnings. Charter rates for PSVs depend in part on the supply of vessels. Excess vessel capacity in the industry or a particular offshore market may result from: • constructing new vessels; • moving vessels from one offshore market area to another; • converting vessels formerly dedicated to services other than offshore marine services; or • declining offshore oil and gas drilling and production activities. In the last ten years, construction of vessels of the type we operate has increased. The addition of new capacity of various types to the worldwide offshore marine fleet or declining offshore oil and gas drilling and production activities are likely to increase competition in those markets where we presently operate which, in turn, could reduce day rates, utilization rates and operating margins, which would affect our financial condition and results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. We procure insurance for the vessels in our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. This insurance includes marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurance, and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per such occurrence. We maintain hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, for our vessels, which provides environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance for our fleet. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future, and we may not be able to obtain certain insurance coverages. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 9 Our operating results will be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results. The operations of our fleet may be subject to seasonal factors dependent upon which region of the world we are operating our PSVs. Since inception our vessels have operated only in the North Sea, however, if the terms and conditions for operations in other regions are more favorable, we might fix contracts for our vessels in other markets. Operations in the North Sea are generally at their highest levels during the months from April through August and at their lowest levels from December through February primarily due to lower construction activity and harsh weather conditions affecting the movement and servicing of drilling rigs. Activity in the Gulf of Mexico, like the North Sea, is often slower during the winter months when construction projects and other specialized jobs are most difficult, and during the hurricane season from June through November, although following a hurricane, activity may increase as there may be a greater demand for vessel services as repair and remediation activities take place. Operations in any market may be affected by seasonality often related to unusually long or short construction seasons due to, among other things, abnormal weather conditions, as well as market demand associated with increased drilling and development activities. Volatile economic conditions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The world economy continues to face a number of challenges, including turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East and other geographic areas and continuing economic weakness in the European Union and the Asia Pacific Region. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. An extended period of deterioration in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. The European Union continues to experience relatively slow growth. Since the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008, the credit markets in Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity. While credit conditions are beginning to stabilize, global financial markets have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Lending by financial institutions worldwide remains at lower levels compared to the period prior to 2008. Lower growth rates in the Asia Pacific region, especially in China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the continued slowdown in the rest of the world. In recent history, China has had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on the demand for oil and its demand for offshore services. The growth rate of China's GDP for the year ended December 31, 2015 is estimated to be approximately 6.9%, the slowest growth rate in twenty-five years. The state of global financial markets and economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, which may hinder or prevent us from expanding our business. As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide us with our original $60.0 million revolving credit facility, or our Credit Facility, which on March 16, 2015, was increased to $150.0 million, and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could negatively impact our ability to fund current and future obligations. As of December 31, 2015, we had drawn down an aggregate of $47.0 million under the Credit Facility. A further $15 million was drawn down in February 2016. 10 The inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In 2012, the European Council established a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. Potential adverse developments in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. Market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to laws and regulations, which can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our ability to pay dividends. Our operations are subject to numerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters and the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or the MTSA, and treaties and conventions of the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the SOLAS Convention and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon well and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other similar events, may result in further regulation of the shipping and offshore industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. In addition, although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which required adopting countries to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. 11 We are subject to international safety standards and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management Code, or the ISM Code, promulgated by the IMO under the safety of life at sea, or SOLAS, Convention. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation of vessels and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. In addition, vessel classification societies impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. If labor interruptions are not resolved in a timely manner, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our technical managers employ masters, officers and crews to man our vessels. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in several countries, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are subject to war, sabotage, piracy, cyber attacks and terrorism risk. War, sabotage, pirate, cyber and terrorist attacks or any similar risk may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including changes in the insurance markets, disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, refineries, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, offshore rigs and vessels, and communications infrastructures, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, a cyber attack or an act of piracy or terror. War or risk of war may also have an adverse effect on the economy. Insurance coverage can be difficult to obtain in areas of pirate and terrorist attacks resulting in increased costs that could continue to increase. We continually evaluate the need to maintain this insurance coverage as it applies to our fleet. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war, sabotage, piracy, cyber attacks or terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital and could also adversely affect the oil, natural gas and power industries and restrict their future growth. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues. 12 Company Specific Risk Factors We are a recently formed company with a limited history of operations. We are a recently formed company and have a limited performance record, operating history and historical financial statements upon which you can evaluate our operations or our ability to implement and achieve our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy. We may not be able to recharter or obtain new and favorable charters for our PSVs, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and our ability to pay dividends. Our vessels are employed either on time charters with firm commitment periods or in the spot market. As of the date of this annual report, one of our PSVs is on a time charter that is scheduled to expire in April 2016. Our ability to renew expiring charters or obtain new charters will depend on the prevailing market conditions at the time. Additionally, we employ, and expect to continue to employ, some of our vessels in the spot charter market, exposing us to fluctuations in the spot charter rates. The spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon PSV supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive spot charter market depends on, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties, such as our vessel charterers, to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We have entered into, and may enter into in the future, various contracts, including charter agreements, shipbuilding contracts and credit facilities. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, prevailing charter rates, and various expenses. For example, the combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in world trade, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in the ability of our charterers to make charter payments to us. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is then under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to terminate or to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters may be at lower rates. As a result, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and comply with covenants in our Credit Facility. We operate a young fleet, however we may acquire additional secondhand vessels in the future, and we are exposed to increased operating costs which could adversely affect our earnings and, as our fleet ages, the risks associated with our vessels could adversely affect our ability to obtain profitable charters. While we will inspect the secondhand vessels which we may acquire, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for, operated and maintained exclusively by us. Generally, purchasers of secondhand vessels do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders for the secondhand vessels that they acquire. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 13 We derive a significant amount of revenue from a relatively small number of customers, the loss of any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The portion of our revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by any such customer, our ability to meet the customer's needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if one or more of these customers decide to interrupt or curtail their activities, terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew existing contracts, and/or refuse to award new contracts, and we were unable to contract our vessels with new customers at comparable day rates. Volatility in LIBOR rates could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Our Credit Facility is advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Any volatility in the LIBOR rate will affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. Delays or defaults by the shipyards in the construction of our newbuildings could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. We currently have two newbuilding PSVs under construction at Vard Aukra shipyard in Norway with expected delivery dates in April and June of 2016. Vessel construction projects are subject to the risk of delay or default by the shipyard caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard, bankruptcy of or other financial crisis involving the shipyard, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, political, social or economic disturbances. Failure to construct or deliver the ship by the shipyard or any significant delays could delay the implementation of increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, which result in significant expenses to us, we may be required to make additional premium payments. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records, as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. 14 Risks Related to our Indebtedness Servicing our current or future indebtedness limits funds available for other purposes and if we cannot service our debt, we may lose our vessels. Borrowing under credit facilities requires us to dedicate a part of our cash flow from operations to paying interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes, including further equity or debt financing in the future. Amounts borrowed under our Credit Facility will bear interest at variable rates. Increases in prevailing interest rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders, even though the outstanding principal amount remains the same, and our net income and cash flows would decrease. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary from year to year due to the cyclical nature of the offshore supply vessel industry. If we do not generate or reserve enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: · seeking to raise additional capital; · refinancing or restructuring our debt; · selling our PSVs; or · reducing or delaying capital investments. However, these alternative financing plans, if necessary, may not be sufficient to allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our Credit Facility contains, and other debt agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants which limit the amount of cash that we may use for other corporate activities, which could negatively affect our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer. Our Credit Facility imposes, and debt agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, or the ability of our subsidiaries party thereto to: · pay dividends and make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts due under our debt agreements or if there is another default under our debt agreements; · incur additional indebtedness, including the issuance of guarantees; · create liens on our assets; · change the flag, class or management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to certain vessels; · sell our vessels; · merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; or · enter into a new line of business. 15 Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you if we determine to do so in the future, finance our future operations or capital requirements, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. In addition, our Credit Facility requires, and debt agreements we may enter into in the future may require, us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants, including ratios and covenants based on the market value of the vessels in our fleet. Should our charter rates or vessel values materially decline in the future, we may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet any such financial ratios and satisfy any such financial covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under our debt agreements would prevent us from borrowing additional money under debt agreements and could result in a default under our Credit Facility or future debt agreements into which we may enter. If a default occurs under our Credit Facility or any debt agreement which we may enter into in the future, the lenders could elect to declare the outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on the collateral securing that debt, which could constitute all or substantially all of our assets. If the United States Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," that could have adverse tax consequences for United States shareholders. A foreign corporation is treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of passive income. For purposes of these tests, cash is treated as an asset that produces passive income, and passive income includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute passive income. United States shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce, or are held for the production of, "passive income." There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and spot charters as services income rather than rental income for other tax purposes. However, there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS or a court of law were to find that we are a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders who owned their shares during such year would face adverse United States federal income tax consequences and certain information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those United States shareholders made or make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such United States shareholders), such United States shareholders would be subject to United States federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions (i.e., distributions received in a taxable year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received during the shorter of the three preceding taxable years or the United States shareholder's holding period for our common shares) and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the United States shareholder's holding period of our common shares. In addition, non-corporate United States shareholders would not be eligible to treat dividends paid by us as "qualified dividend income" if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the immediately preceding taxable year. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our common share price may be highly volatile and future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate and case law. We are organized in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate or case law and, as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can't predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as U.S. courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands and certain of our officers and directors are non-U.S. residents. It may be difficult to serve legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our business is operated primarily from our administrative offices in Norway and the United Kingdom. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and substantially all of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or our directors and officers. Although you may bring an original action against us or our affiliates in the courts of the Marshall Islands, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us or our affiliates for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands law, it may be impracticable for you to do so. 16 Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of our common shares. We are an "emerging growth company" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies." We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our share price may be more volatile. In addition, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for so long as we are an emerging growth company. For as long as we take advantage of the reduced reporting obligations, the information that we provide shareholders may be different from information provided by other public companies. 17 