D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. In that event, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page i. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry The IT security market is rapidly evolving within the increasingly challenging cyber threat landscape. If the industry does not continue to develop as we anticipate, our sales will not grow as quickly as expected and our share price could decline. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry focused on securing organizations’ IT systems and sensitive business data. Our solution focuses on safeguarding privileged accounts, which are those accounts within an organization that give the user high levels of access, or “privileged” access, to IT systems, infrastructure, industrial control systems, applications and data. While breaches of such privileged accounts have gained media attention in recent years, IT security spending within enterprises is often concentrated on endpoint and web security products designed to stop threats from penetrating corporate networks. Organizations that use these security products may allocate all or most of their IT security budgets to these products and may not adopt our solution in addition to such products. Further, a security solution such as ours, which is focused on disrupting cyber attacks by insiders and external perpetrators that have penetrated the organization’s perimeter, is a relatively new technology that has been developed to respond to advanced threats and more rigorous compliance standards and audit requirements. However, advanced cyber attackers are skilled at adapting to new technologies and developing new methods of gaining access to organizations’ sensitive business data. Changes in the nature of advanced cyber threats could result in a shift in IT budgets away from solutions such as ours. In addition, any changes in compliance standards or audit requirements that deemphasize the types of controls, storage, monitoring and analysis that our solution 5 Table of Contents provides would adversely impact demand for our offerings. It is therefore difficult to predict how large the market will be for our solution. If solutions such as ours are not viewed by organizations as necessary, or if customers do not recognize the benefit of our solution as a critical layer of an effective security strategy, then our revenues may not grow as quickly as expected, or may decline, and our share price could suffer. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operations will be negatively affected, and as we invest in the growth of our business, we expect our operating and net profit margins to decline in the near-term. We have experienced significant growth in a relatively short period of time and intend to continue to aggressively grow our business. Our revenues grew from $47.2 million in 2012 to $103.0 million in 2014. Our headcount has increased from 239 as of December 31, 2012 to 430 as of December 31, 2014, and we plan to hire additional employees in 2015 across all areas of the organization. Our rapid growth has placed significant demands on our management, sales and operational and financial infrastructure, and our growth will continue to place significant demands on these resources. Further, in order to manage our current and future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our IT and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls and efficiently manage headcount, capital and processes. We may not be able to successfully implement these improvements in a timely or efficient manner, and our failure to do so may materially impact our projected growth rate. As we invest in the growth of our business, our operating and net profit margins and our operating and net income have declined in recent periods compared to prior periods and we expect this trend to continue in the near-term, primarily as a result of the costs associated with expanding our direct and indirect sales forces, our increased rate of investment in research and development and our increased administrative costs in connection with becoming a public company. We expect that these invested costs will adversely impact our operating and net profit margins since it will take time and resources to train and integrate new sales force members and to comply with public company reporting and regulatory requirements. In addition, costs associated with adding new personnel to our sales force are expensed before their positive impact on our sales is recognized, and even then a significant portion of any revenues that they generate from maintenance and professional services are deferred over the delivery period of those services. A failure to meet market expectations regarding our revenues and profitability could have an adverse effect on our share price. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including our failure to close significant sales before the end of a particular quarter. A meaningful portion of our revenues is generated by significant sales to new customers and sales of additional products to existing customers. Purchases of our products and services often occur at the end of each quarter, particularly in the last quarter of the year. In addition, our sales cycle can last several months from proof of concept to delivery of our solution to our customers, and this sales cycle can be even longer, less predictable and more resource-intensive for larger sales. Customers may also require additional internal approvals or seek to test our products for a longer trial period before deciding to purchase our solution. As a result, the timing of individual sales can be difficult to predict. In some cases, sales have occurred in a quarter subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all, which can significantly impact our quarterly results and make it more difficult to meet market expectations. Furthermore, even if we close a sale during a given quarter we may be unable to recognize the revenues derived from such sale during the same period due to our revenue recognition policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Revenue Recognition.” In addition to the sales cycle-related fluctuations noted above, our results of operations will continue to vary as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: • our ability to attract and retain new customers; • our ability to sell additional products to current customers; • changes in customer or channel partner requirements or market needs; • changes in the growth rate of the information security market; 6 Table of Contents • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of the information security market, including consolidation among our customers or competitors; • a disruption in, or termination of, our relationship with channel partners; • our ability to successfully expand our business globally; • reductions in maintenance renewal rates; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • general economic conditions in our markets; • future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies or practices; • the amount and timing of our operating costs; • a change in our mix of products and services; and • increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other operating results from period to period. These fluctuations could result in our failure to meet our operating plan or the expectations of investors or analysts for any period. If we fail to meet such expectations for these or other reasons, the market price of our ordinary shares could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Our reputation and business could be harmed based on real or perceived shortcomings, defects or vulnerabilities in our solution or the failure of our solution to meet customers’ expectations. Organizations are facing increasingly sophisticated and targeted cyber threats, including the growing threat of cyber terrorism throughout the world. If we fail to identify and respond to new and increasingly complex methods of attack and update our products to detect or prevent such threats, our business and reputation will suffer. In particular, we may suffer significant adverse publicity and reputational harm if a significant breach occurs generally or if any breach occurs at a high profile customer. Moreover, as our solution is adopted by an increasing number of enterprises and governmental entities, it is possible that attackers will begin to focus on finding ways to defeat our solution. An actual or perceived security breach or theft of our customers’ sensitive business data, regardless of whether the breach or theft is attributable to the failure of our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of the efficacy of our solution and current or potential customers may look to our competitors for alternatives to our solution. The failure of our products may also subject us to lawsuits and financial losses stemming from indemnification of our partners and other third parties, as well as the expenditure of significant financial resources to analyze, correct or eliminate any vulnerabilities. It could also cause us to suffer reputational harm, lose existing customers or deter them from purchasing additional products and services and prevent new customers from purchasing our solution. False detection of threats, while typical in our industry, may reduce perception of the reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. If our solution restricts legitimate privileged access by authorized personnel to IT systems and applications by falsely identifying those users as an attack or otherwise unauthorized, our customers’ business could be harmed. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us, errors will not be found in existing and new versions of our products, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem. If we are unable to acquire new customers, our future revenues and operating results will be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to acquire new customers. The number of customers that we add in a given period impacts both our short-term and long-term revenues. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of 7 Table of Contents new customers, we may be unable to generate revenue growth at desired rates. The IT security market is competitive and many of our competitors have substantial financial, personnel, and other resources that they utilize to develop products and attract customers. As a result, it may be difficult for us to add new customers to our customer base. Competition in the marketplace may also lead us to win fewer new customers or result in us providing discounts and other commercial incentives. Additional factors that impact our ability to acquire new customers include the perceived need for IT security, the size of our prospective customers’ IT budgets, the utility and efficacy of our existing and new offerings, whether proven or perceived, and general economic conditions. These factors may have a meaningful negative impact on future revenues and operating results. If we are unable to sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our future revenues and operating results will be harmed. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from sales to existing customers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to sell new licenses and incremental licenses to our existing customers. We devote significant efforts to developing, marketing and selling additional licenses and associated maintenance and support to existing customers and rely on these efforts for a portion of our revenues. These efforts require a significant investment in building and maintaining customer relationships, as well as significant research and development efforts in order to provide product upgrades and launch new products. The rate at which our existing customers purchase additional products and services depends on a number of factors, including the perceived need for additional IT security, the efficacy of our solutions and the utility of our new offerings, whether proven or perceived, our customers’ IT budgets, general economic conditions, our customers’ overall satisfaction with the maintenance and professional services we provide and the continued growth and economic health of our customer base to require incremental users and servers to be covered. If our efforts to sell additional products and services to our customers are not successful, our future revenues and operating results will be harmed. We face intense competition from IT security vendors, some of which are larger and better known than we are, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. The IT security market in which we operate is characterized by intense competition, constant innovation and evolving security threats. We compete with companies that offer a broad array of IT security products. Our current and potential future competitors include CA, Inc., Dell Inc., International Business Machines Corporation and Oracle Corporation in the access and identity management market, and may also include providers of advanced threat protection solutions such as Hewlett-Packard Company, EMC Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, FireEye, Inc., Splunk Inc. and Palo Alto Networks, Inc. and other smaller companies that offer point solutions with a more limited range of functionality than our own offerings. Some of our competitors are large companies that have the technical and financial resources and broad customer bases needed to bring competitive solutions to the market and already have existing relationships as a trusted vendor for other products. Such companies may use these advantages to offer products and services that are perceived to be as effective as ours at a lower price or for free as part of a larger product package or solely in consideration for maintenance and services fees. They may also develop different products to compete with our current solution and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. Additionally, from time to time we may compete with smaller regional vendors that offer products with a more limited range of capabilities that purport to perform functions similar to our solution. Such companies may enjoy stronger sales and service capabilities in their particular regions. Our competitors may enjoy potential competitive advantages over us, such as: • greater name recognition, a longer operating history and a larger customer base, notwithstanding the increased visibility of our brand following our initial public offering; • larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; • broader distribution and established relationships with channel and distribution partners and customers; • greater customer support resources; • greater resources to make acquisitions; 8 Table of Contents • larger intellectual property portfolios; and • greater financial, technical and other resources. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. Larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products, which would lead to increased pricing pressure on our products and could cause the average sales prices for our products to decline. In addition, other IT security technologies exist or could be developed in the future by current or future competitors, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if such technologies are widely adopted. We may not be able to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing technology or customer requirements on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to keep up with technological changes or to convince our customers and potential customers of the value of our solution even in light of new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If our internal network system is compromised by cyber attackers or other data thieves, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. We will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective IT security protection. We provide privileged account security products, and as such we may be an attractive target for attacks by cyber attackers or other data thieves since a breach of our system could provide data information regarding not only us, but potentially regarding the customers that our solution protects. As a result of our recent initial public offering, we have enjoyed increased visibility as a company, which could have the effect of attracting the attention of more hackers than would otherwise target us for data theft. Further, we may be targeted by cyber terrorists because we are an Israeli company. If we experience an actual or perceived breach of our network or privileged account security in our internal systems, it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. In addition, we may need to devote more resources to address security vulnerabilities in our solution, and the cost of addressing these vulnerabilities could reduce our operating margins. If we do not address security vulnerabilities or otherwise provide adequate security features in our products, certain customers, particularly government customers, may delay or stop purchasing our products. Further, a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide maintenance and support services to our customers. If this happens, our revenues could decline and our business could suffer. If we do not effectively expand, train and retain our sales force, we may be unable to acquire new customers or sell additional products and services to existing customers, and our business will suffer. We depend significantly on our sales force to attract new customers and expand sales to existing customers. We generate approximately 50% of our revenues from direct sales. As a result, our ability to grow our revenues depends in part on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth, particularly in the United States. The number of our sales and marketing personnel increased from 135 as of December 31, 2013 to 202 as of December 31, 2014. We expect to continue to expand our sales and marketing personnel significantly and face a number of challenges in achieving our hiring and integration goals. There is intense competition for individuals with sales training and experience. In addition, the training and integration of a large number of sales and marketing personnel in a short time requires the allocation of significant internal resources. We invest significant time and resources in training new sales force personnel to understand our solutions and growth strategy. Based on our past experience, it takes an average of approximately six to nine months before a new sales force member operates at target performance levels. However, we may be unable to achieve or maintain our target performance levels with large numbers of new sales personnel as quickly as we have done in the past. Our failure to hire a sufficient number of qualified sales force members and train them to operate at target performance levels may materially and adversely impact our projected growth rate. 9 Table of Contents We rely on channel partners, including systems integrators, distributors and value-added resellers, to generate a significant portion of our revenue. If we fail to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners, or if our channel partners fail to perform, our ability to market, sell and distribute our solution will be limited, and our business, financial position and results of operations will be harmed. In addition to our direct sales force, we rely on our channel partners to sell and support our solution, particularly in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. We expect that sales through our channel partners will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. We generate approximately 50% of our revenues from sales to channel partners and we expect that channel partners will represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our agreements with channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our partners may offer customers IT security products from other companies, including products that compete with our solution. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our solution, or choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products and services or the products and services of our competitors, our ability to grow our business will be adversely affected. Our channel partners may cease or deemphasize the marketing of our solution with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. Further, new channel partners require training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. The loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, the inability to replace them or the failure to recruit additional channel partners could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our reliance on channel partners could also subject us to lawsuits or reputational harm if, for example, a channel partner misrepresents the functionality of our solution to customers or violates laws or our corporate policies. Our ability to grow revenues in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our channel partners and training our channel partners to independently sell and install our solution. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with channel partners or otherwise develop and expand our indirect sales channel, or if our channel partners fail to perform, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our products fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from our products and services because they enable our customers to achieve and maintain compliance with certain government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. Examples of industry standards and government regulations include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS); the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and associated National Institute for Standards and Testing (NIST) Network Security Standards; the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; Title 21 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, which governs food and drugs industries; the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (NERC-CIP); the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) Minimum Requirements for Risk Management; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s Technology Risk Management Notices. These industry standards may change with little or no notice, including changes that could make them more or less onerous for businesses. In addition, governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could impact whether our solution enables our customers to maintain compliance with such laws or regulations. If we are unable to adapt our solution to changing government regulations and industry standards in a timely manner, or if our solution fails to expedite our customers’ compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our products and could switch to products offered by our competitors. In addition, if government regulations and industry standards related to IT security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our products and services. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. Our model for long-term growth depends upon the introduction of new products. If we are unable to develop new products or if these new products are not adopted by customers, our growth will be adversely affected. Our business depends on the successful development and marketing of new products, including adding complementary offerings to our current products. For example, we introduced our first behavioral analytics product, Privileged Threat Analytics, in December 2013 and continued the expansion of our proactive, controls monitoring and management product line with the introduction of SSH Key Manager in November 2014. Development and marketing of new products requires significant up-front research, development and other costs, and the failure of new products we develop to gain market acceptance may result in a failure to achieve future sales and adversely affect our competitive position. There can be no assurance that any of our new or future products will achieve market acceptance or generate revenues at forecasted rates or that the margins generated from their sales will allow us to recoup the costs of our development efforts. 10 Table of Contents Failure by us or our channel partners to maintain sufficient levels of customer support could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers depend in large part on customer support delivered through our channel partners or by us to resolve issues relating to the use of our solution. However, even with our support and that of our channel partners, our customers are ultimately responsible for effectively using our solution and ensuring that their IT staff is properly trained in the use of our products and complementary security products. The failure of our customers to correctly use our solution, or our failure to effectively assist customers in installing our solution and providing effective ongoing support, may result in an increase in the vulnerability of our customers’ IT systems and sensitive business data. Additionally, if our channel partners do not effectively provide support to the satisfaction of our customers, we may be required to provide support to such customers, which would require us to invest in additional personnel, which requires significant time and resources. We may not be able to keep up with demand, particularly if the sales of our solution exceed our internal forecasts. To the extent that we or our channel partners are unsuccessful in hiring, training and retaining adequate support resources, our ability and the ability of our channel partners to provide adequate and timely support to our customers will be negatively impacted, and our customers’ satisfaction with our products will be adversely affected. Accordingly, our failure to provide satisfactory maintenance and technical support services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and enhance our existing products or develop new products that meet those needs on a timely basis, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. Our customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to adapt to increasingly complex IT infrastructures that incorporate a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. As our customers’ technologies and business plans grow more complex, we expect them to face new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack. We face significant challenges in ensuring that our solution effectively identifies and responds to these advanced and evolving attacks without disrupting the performance of our customers’ IT systems. As a result, we must continually modify and improve our products in response to changes in our customers’ IT and industrial control infrastructures. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop product enhancements or new products to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner, if at all. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce enhancements and new products, there can be no assurance that enhancements or new products will achieve widespread market acceptance. Our product enhancements or new products could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: • delays in releasing product enhancements or new products; • failure to accurately predict market demand and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; • inability to interoperate effectively with the existing or newly introduced technologies, systems or applications of our existing and prospective customers; • inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by cyber attackers or other data thieves; • defects in our products, errors or failures of our solutions to secure privileged accounts; • negative publicity about the performance or effectiveness of our products; • introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; 11 Table of Contents • installation, configuration or usage errors by our customers; • easing or changing of regulatory requirements related to security; and • reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce product enhancements or new products to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose existing customers and prevent us from gaining new customers, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products do not effectively interoperate with our customers’ existing or future IT infrastructures, installations could be delayed or cancelled, which would harm our business. Our products must effectively interoperate with our customers’ existing or future IT infrastructures, which often have different specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, deploy products from multiple vendors and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ infrastructure or problematic network configurations or settings, we may have to modify our software so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ infrastructure and business processes. In addition, to stay competitive within certain markets, we may be required to make software modifications in future releases to comply with new statutory or regulatory requirements. These issues could result in longer sales cycles for our products and order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our research and development efforts may not produce successful products or enhancements to our solution that result in significant revenue or other benefits in the near future, if at all. We expect to continue to dedicate significant financial and other resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain our competitive position. For example, in 2014, we increased our dedicated research and development personnel by 25% compared to 2013. However, investing in research and development personnel, developing new products and enhancing existing products is expensive and time consuming, and there is no assurance that such activities will result in significant new marketable products or enhancements to our products, design improvements, cost savings, revenues or other expected benefits. If we spend significant time and effort on research and development and are unable to generate an adequate return on our investment, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a number of risks associated with global sales and operations. Business practices in the global markets that we serve may differ from those in the United States and may require us to include non-standard terms in customer contracts, such as extended payment or warranty terms. To the extent that we enter into customer contracts that include non-standard terms related to payment, warranties, or performance obligations, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, our global sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and managing collections, as well as longer collection periods; • higher costs of doing business globally, including costs incurred in maintaining office space, securing adequate staffing and localizing our contracts; • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business (See “—We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations”); • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion; • risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including any importation, certification, and localization of our platform that may be required in foreign countries; 12 Table of Contents • greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Anti-Bribery Act; • heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements; • reduced or uncertain protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • social, economic and political instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These and other factors could harm our ability to generate future global revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, our business could suffer substantial harm. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, brands and other intellectual property and to enforce our rights in that intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. As of December 31, 2014, we had two issued patents in the United States and 14 pending U.S. patent applications. We also had one patent issued and 16 applications pending for examination in non-U.S. jurisdictions, and two pending Patent Cooperation Treaty patent examinations, all of which are counterparts of our U.S. patent applications. We may file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner all the way through to the successful issuance of a patent. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention. Our policy is to require our employees (and our consultants and service providers that develop intellectual property included in our products) to execute written agreements in which they assign to us their rights in potential inventions and other intellectual property created within the scope of their employment (or, with respect to consultants and service providers, their engagement to develop such intellectual property), but we cannot assure you that we have adequately protected our rights in every such agreement or that we have executed an agreement with every such party. Finally, in order to benefit from the protection of patents and other intellectual property rights, we must monitor and detect infringement and pursue infringement claims in certain circumstances in relevant jurisdictions, all of which are costly and time-consuming. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate protection or to effectively enforce our issued patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secret rights, copyrights and other rights to protect our unpatented proprietary intellectual property and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties, including our employees, consultants, service providers or customers, may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use our trade secrets or other confidential information. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, service providers, vendors, channel partners and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information and proprietary technology through certain procedural safeguards. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or technology 13 Table of Contents or infringement of our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we sell our products do not protect intellectual property rights and technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these countries may not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States. Based on the 2013 report on intellectual property rights protection and enforcement published by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, such countries included Ukraine (designated a priority foreign country) and Chile, China, India, Indonesia, Russia and Thailand (designated as priority watch list countries). If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. Intellectual property claims may increase our costs or require us to cease selling certain products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The IT security industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of relevant patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the IT security industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third-parties have asserted and may assert their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. Furthermore, we may be subject to indemnification obligations with respect to third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to our agreements with our channel partners or customers. Such indemnification provisions are customary for our industry. Successful claims of infringement or misappropriation by a third-party against us or a third-party that we indemnify could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or could require us to pay substantial damages (including, for example, treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents and increased statutory damages if we are found to have willfully infringed copyrights), royalties or other fees. Such claims also could require us to cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others, to expend additional development resources to attempt to redesign our products or services or otherwise to develop non-infringing technology, to enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or intellectual property rights, and to indemnify our partners and other third parties, including our customers and channel partners whom we typically indemnify against such claims. Even if third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. Defending against claims of infringement or being deemed to be infringing the intellectual property rights of others could impair our ability to innovate, develop, distribute and sell our current and planned products and services. If we are unable to ensure that we are not violating the intellectual property rights of others, our financial position may be adversely affected. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could materially adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our current and prospective customers’ ability and willingness to invest money in IT security, which in turn is dependent upon their overall economic health. Negative economic conditions in the global economy, including conditions resulting from financial and credit market fluctuations, could cause a decrease in corporate spending on information security software. We generated 32.2% of our revenues from Europe, the Middle East and Africa in 2014. Continuing economic challenges throughout Europe and other parts of the world may cause our customers in those locations to reevaluate decisions to purchase our solution or to delay their purchasing decisions, which could adversely impact our results of operations due to the importance of that region to us. In addition, a significant portion of our revenues is generated from customers in the financial services industry, including banking and insurance. Negative economic conditions may cause customers generally and in that industry in particular to reduce their IT spending. Customers may delay or cancel IT projects, choose to focus on in-house development efforts or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating maintenance and support agreements. To the extent purchases of licenses for our software are perceived by customers and potential customers to be discretionary, our revenues may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general IT spending. If the economic conditions of the general economy or industries in which we operate worsen from present levels, our results of operation could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in sales and engineering, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. Additionally, two of our U.S. executive officers have not signed non-compete agreements with us. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in Israel, where we are headquartered. Further, a number of our employees are substantially vested in significant share option plans, and their ability to exercise those options and sell their shares in a public market may result in a larger than normal turn-over rate. Additionally, we may struggle to retain employees because our profile, which has been raised by our recent initial public offering, may attract competitors who may then actively seek to hire skilled personnel away from us. In addition, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. We rely significantly on revenues from maintenance and support contracts, which we recognize ratably over the term of the associated contract and, to a lesser extent, from professional services contracts, which we recognize as services are delivered, and downturns in sales of these contracts are not immediately reflected in full in our quarterly operating results. Maintenance and support and professional services revenues accounted for 40.5% of our total revenues in 2014. Sales of maintenance and support and professional services may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of product licenses we sell, our customers’ level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our sales of maintenance and support and professional services contracts decline, our revenues or revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. We recognize revenues from maintenance and support contracts ratably on a straight-line basis over the term of the related contract which is typically one year and, to a lesser extent, three years, and from professional services as services are performed. As a result, a meaningful portion of the revenues we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenues from maintenance and support and professional services contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in the number or size of such contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenues in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in maintenance and support and professional services contracts would not be reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and we generate a majority of our revenues in U.S. dollars. In 2014, the majority of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remainder primarily in euros and British pounds sterling. In 2014, the substantial majority of our cost of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars and New Israeli Shekels (NIS), and the remainder primarily in euros and British pounds sterling. Our foreign currency-denominated expenses consist primarily of personnel, rent and other overhead costs. Since a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in NIS and is substantially greater than our revenues in NIS, any appreciation of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our net loss or net income, as applicable. In addition, since the portion of our revenues generated in euros is significantly greater than our expenses incurred in euros, any depreciation of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our net loss or net income, as relevant. We currently have less exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the British pound sterling because our revenues and expenses in that currency have an offsetting effect. We estimate that a 10% increase or decrease in the value of the NIS against the U.S. dollar would have decreased or increased our net income by approximately $2.0 million in 2014. We estimate that a 10% increase or decrease in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would have decreased or increased our net income by approximately $0.7 million in 2014. These estimates of the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on our historic results of operations may be different from the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our future results of operations since the mix of currencies comprising our revenues and expenses may change. We evaluate periodically the various currencies to which we are exposed and take hedging measures to reduce the potential adverse impact from the appreciation or the depreciation of our non U.S. dollar-denominated operations, as appropriate. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars with the balance in euros and British pounds sterling for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS, British pounds sterling and in euros. We cannot provide any assurances that our hedging activities will be successful in protecting us from adverse impacts from currency exchange rate fluctuations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Risk.” 15 Table of Contents A portion of our revenues is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our revenues is generated by sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency customers, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will complete a sale. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Finally, for purchases by the U.S. government, the government may require certain products to be manufactured in the United States and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the U.S. government. We may acquire other businesses, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value, and adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our business strategy and in order to remain competitive, we are evaluating acquiring or making investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. However, we have not made any acquisitions to date, and as a result, our ability as an organization to acquire and integrate other companies, products or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, analysts and investors. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating such acquisitions or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. We may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the value of our ordinary shares. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability in the event of non-compliance or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We incorporate encryption capabilities into certain products and these products are subject to U.S. export control requirements. We are also subject to Israeli export controls on encryption technology since our product development initiatives are primarily conducted in Israel. If the applicable U.S. or Israeli requirements regarding the export of encryption technology were to change or if we change the encryption means in our products, we may need to satisfy additional requirements in the United States or Israel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any additional requirements under these circumstances in either the United States or Israel. Furthermore, various other countries regulate the import of certain encryption products and technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. We are also subject to U.S. and Israeli export control and economic sanctions laws, which prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Our products could be exported to these sanctioned targets by our channel partners despite the contractual undertakings they have given us and any such export could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In addition, in the future we may be subject to defense-related export controls. For example, currently our solution is not subject to supervision under the Israeli Defense Export Control Law, 5767-2007, but if it was used for purposes that are classified as defense-related or if it falls under “dual-use goods and technology” as referred to below, we could become subject to such regulation. In particular, under the Israeli Defense Export Control Law, 5767-2007, an Israeli company may not conduct “defense marketing activity” without a defense marketing license from the Israeli Ministry of Defense (MOD) and may be subject to a requirement to obtain a specific license from the MOD for any export of defense related products and/or knowhow. The definition of defense marketing activity is broad and includes any marketing of “defense equipment,” “defense knowhow” or “defense services” outside of Israel, which includes “dual-use goods and technology,” (material and equipment intended in principle for civilian use and that can also be used for defensive purposes, such as our cybersecurity solutions) that is specified in the list of Goods and Dual-Use Technology annexed to the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies, if intended for defense use only, or is specified under Israeli legislation. “Dual-use goods and technology” will be subject to control by the Ministry of Economy if intended for civilian use only. In December 2013, regulations under the Wassenaar Arrangement included for the first time a chapter on cyber-related matters. We believe that our products do not fall under this chapter; however, in the future we may become subject to this regulation or similar regulations, which would limit our sales and marketing activities and could therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similar issues could arise under the U.S. defense/military export controls under the Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Our use of third-party software and other intellectual property may expose us to risks. Some of our products and services include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we otherwise use software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties in our business. This exposes us to risks over which we may have little or no control. For example, a licensor may have difficulties keeping up with technological changes or may stop supporting the software or other intellectual property that it licenses to us. There can be no assurance that the licenses we use will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a third party may assert that we or our customers are in breach of the terms of a license, which could, among other things, give such third party the right to terminate a license or seek damages from us, or both. Our inability to obtain or maintain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain or maintain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in releases of new products, and could otherwise disrupt our business, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our software and subject us to possible litigation. We use open source software and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute or make available as a service open source software as part of their own software product to publicly disclose all or part of the source code of the users’ software product or to make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. We may face ownership claims of third parties over, or seeking to enforce the license terms applicable to, such open source software, including by demanding the release of the open source software, derivative works or our proprietary source code that was developed using such software. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our software, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if the license terms for the open source code change, we may be forced to re-engineer our software or incur additional costs. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our ordinary shares were first offered publicly in our initial public offering in September 2014, at a price of $16.00 per share, and our ordinary shares have subsequently traded as high as $70.48 per share and as low as $22.12 17 Table of Contents per share through February 26, 2015. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, changes in service provider relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; • changes in the prices of our products and services; • our involvement in litigation; • our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • market conditions in our industry; • changes in key personnel; • the trading volume of our ordinary shares; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • any merger and acquisition activities; and • general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading price for our ordinary shares is affected by any research or reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our business publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or our business, and in particular, if they downgrade their evaluations of our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our ordinary shares, which in turn could cause our share price to decline. A small number of significant beneficial owners of our shares will have a controlling influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, entities and individuals affiliated with Jerusalem Venture Partners and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as of February 17, 2015, beneficially owned in the aggregate 55.4% of our ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders individually could exert significant influence, and if they were to act together could exert a controlling influence, over our operations and business strategy and would have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: • the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; 18 Table of Contents • raising future capital; and • amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain rules of NASDAQ. We currently follow Israeli home country practices solely with regard to the quorum requirement for shareholder meetings. As permitted under the Israeli Companies Law, or Companies Law, our articles of association provide that the quorum for any meeting of shareholders shall be the presence of at least two shareholders present in person, by proxy or by a voting instrument, who hold at least 25% of the voting power of our shares instead of 33 1/3% of our issued share capital. We may in the future elect to follow Israeli home country practices with regard to other matters such as the formation and composition of the nominating and corporate governance committee, separate executive sessions of independent directors and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a United States company listed on NASDAQ may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. See “Item16.G. Corporate Governance.” As a foreign private issuer we are not subject to the provisions of Regulation FD or U.S. proxy rules and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from a number of requirements under U.S. securities laws that apply to public companies that are not foreign private issuers. In particular, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act and we are generally exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. We are also exempt from the provisions of Regulation FD, which prohibits issuers from making selective disclosure of material nonpublic information to, among others, broker-dealers and holders of a company’s securities under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that the holder will trade in the company’s securities on the basis of the information. Even though we intend to comply voluntarily with Regulation FD, these exemptions and leniencies will reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you are entitled as an investor. For so long as we qualify as a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the proxy rules applicable to U.S. domestic companies, although pursuant to the Companies Law, we disclose the annual compensation of our five most highly compensated office holders (as defined under the Companies Law) on an individual basis, including in this annual report. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our directors or executive officers are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. Although we have elected to comply with certain U.S. regulatory provisions, our loss of foreign private issuer 19 Table of Contents status would make such provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would also be required to follow U.S. proxy disclosure requirements, including the requirement to disclose more detailed information about the compensation of our senior executive officers on an individual basis. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we would lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain whether the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 effective on April 5, 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Most of such requirements relate to disclosures that we would only be required to make if we cease to be a foreign private issuer in the future. Nevertheless, as a foreign private issuer that is an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for up to five fiscal years after September 23, 2014, the date of our initial public offering. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion; (b) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. When we are no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company, we will not be entitled to the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act discussed above. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. If our existing shareholders, particularly our largest shareholders, our directors, their affiliates, or our executive officers, sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that these shareholders might sell our ordinary shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our future ability to obtain capital, especially through an offering of equity securities. In connection with our initial public offering, our executive officers and directors and the holders of substantially all of our ordinary shares entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters, which, subject to limited exceptions, restrict their ability to transfer their shares until March 22, 2015. As a result, on March 22, 2015, approximately 23.9 million shares will become available for sale, approximately 21.8 million of which we expect to be subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations. These numbers are subject to change in the event that any of our shareholders participate in a registered underwritten offering of our shares which would result in such shareholders, and our directors and officers, signing new lock-up agreements for up to 90 days. Currently, and without taking into account the planned secondary offering of our ordinary shares, the holders of approximately 23.0 million of our ordinary shares are entitled to require that we register their shares under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets subject to any lock-up agreement that such holders have signed in connection with our IPO. All shares sold pursuant to an offering covered by such a registration statement would be freely transferable. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Registration Rights.” Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. 20 Table of Contents Further, 4,776,985 ordinary shares are reserved for issuance under our share option plans as of December 31, 2014. Shares issuable under our share option plans have been registered on a Form S-8 registration statement and may be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, except for shares held by affiliates who have certain restrictions on their ability to sell. We believe that we were classified as a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ending December 31, 2014, and our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences as a result. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which, assuming we were a non-publicly traded controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for the year being tested, may be measured by the adjusted tax basis of our assets or, if we were a publicly traded CFC or not a CFC, the total value of our assets may be measured in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on our belief that we were a CFC prior to our initial public offering in our 2014 taxable year and on our gross income and gross assets, as well as our use of proceeds from our initial public offering, and the nature of our business, we believe that we were classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2014. Because the total value of our assets will be measured in part by the market value of our ordinary shares in our 2015 taxable year, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015. However, because PFIC status is based on our income, assets and activities for the entire taxable year, it is not possible to determine whether we will be characterized as a PFIC for our 2015 taxable year until after the close of the year. There can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. Our characterization as a PFIC could result in material adverse tax consequences for you if you are a U.S. investor, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than a capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. holders, and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. If we are characterized as a PFIC, certain elections may be available that would alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and result in an alternative treatment of our ordinary shares. However, such elections could result in you recognizing taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. For each year in which we are a PFIC and our ordinary shares are “regularly traded” on a “qualified exchange,” a U.S. investor may be able to avoid certain adverse tax consequences by making an election to “mark-to-market” our ordinary shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of the ordinary shares. However, a mark-to-market election with respect to us does not apply to any equity interests in our subsidiaries that are classified as a PFIC and a “U.S. Holder” (as defined in “Item 10.E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences —Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”) generally will continue to be subject to the PFIC rules with respect to its indirect interest in any investments held by us that are treated as equity interests in a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to U.S. Holders the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. See “Item 10.E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences —Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Prospective U.S. investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to them. Prospective U.S. investors should refer to “Item 10.E. Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for discussion of additional U.S. income tax considerations applicable to them based on our treatment as a PFIC. We have broad discretion over the use of proceeds we received in our initial public offering and may not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value of your investment. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, the majority of which has not yet been spent, and, as a result, you must rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to the use of these proceeds. Our management may spend a portion or all of the net proceeds in ways that not all shareholders approve of or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and, as an emerging growth company, we are currently not required to obtain an auditor attestation regarding our internal control over financial reporting and we have therefore not yet determined whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting are effective. We will not be required to comply with the internal control, evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we file our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2015, at the earliest. Furthermore, unless we lose our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until 2018. Accordingly, we have only recently commenced the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. We may lose our status as an “emerging growth company” and be required to obtain an auditor attestation for our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2015 if we have an unaffiliated market capitalization of over $700 million as of June 30, 2015. The process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting will require an investment of substantial time and resources, including by our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management. As a result, this process may divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of this determination and whether we will need to implement remedial actions in order to implement effective control over financial reporting. The determination and any remedial actions required could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently or are required to do so earlier than anticipated, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. Risks Relating to Our Incorporation and Location in Israel Our headquarters, research and development activities and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our headquarters and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. In addition, the majority of our key employees, officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. In recent years, these have included hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza strip, both of which resulted in rockets being fired into Israel causing casualties and disruption of economic activities. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, Iran. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government is currently committed to covering the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained, or if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflict involving Israel could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Further, our operations could be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2014, we had 180 employees based in Israel, certain of which may be called upon to perform up to 54 days in each three year period (and in the case of non-officer commanders or officers, up to 70 or 84 days, respectively, in each three year period) of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (and in some cases, depending on their specific military profession up to 45 or even 49 years of age) and, in certain emergency circumstances, may be called to immediate and unlimited active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of employees related to military service, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies whether as a result of hostilities in the region or otherwise. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes. We were granted Approved Enterprise status under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. We had elected the alternative benefits program, pursuant to which income derived from the Approved Enterprise program is tax-exempt for two years and enjoys a reduced tax rate of 10% to 25% for up to a total of eight years, subject to an adjustment based upon the foreign investors’ ownership. We were also eligible for certain tax benefits provided to Benefited Enterprises under the Investment Law. In March 2013, we notified the Israel Tax Authority that we apply the new tax regime under the Investment Law instead of our Approved Enterprise and Benefited Enterprise. As of 2013 we are eligible for certain tax benefits provided to Preferred Enterprises under Investment Law. If we do not meet the conditions stipulated in the Investment Law, any tax benefits may be canceled and we may be required to refund the amount of the benefits, in whole or in part, including interest and CPI linkage. Further, in the future these tax benefits may be reduced or discontinued. If these tax benefits are reduced, cancelled or discontinued, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies in 2013 was 25.0% and was increased to 26.5% for 2014 and thereafter. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel through acquisitions, for example, our expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs—Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959.” We may be required to pay monetary remuneration to employees who invented inventions during and as a consequence of their employment, even if the proprietary rights to such inventions have been assigned to us. We enter into assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees pursuant to which such individuals agree to assign to us all rights to any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement with us. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees during the course of their employment by us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee during the scope of his or her employment with a company are regarded as ‘‘service inventions,’’ which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between the employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee, the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, or the Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, shall determine whether the employee is entitled to remuneration for his or her inventions. Recent decisions by the Committee have created uncertainty in this area, as it held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration or the criteria or circumstances under which an employee’s assignment of all rights and/or waiver of his or her right to remuneration will be disregarded. Although our employees have agreed to assign to us service invention rights, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with or an acquisition of us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares are tendered. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer (unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not 23 Table of Contents seek appraisal rights), may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. See “Item 10.B. Articles of Association—Acquisitions under Israeli Law” for additional information. Our articles of association provide that our directors (other than external directors) are elected on a staggered basis, such that a potential acquirer cannot readily replace our entire board of directors at a single annual general shareholder meeting. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers involving an exchange of shares, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us, our officers and directors or the Israeli auditors named in this annual report in Israel or the United States, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors and these auditors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our directors and executive officers, and the Israeli auditors listed in this annual report reside outside of the United States, and most of our assets and most of the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are, and will continue to be, governed by Israeli law which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. 24 Table of Contents 