D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our common shares could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in highly competitive markets and may be adversely affected by this competition. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and are subject to rapid technological changes and evolving customer demands and needs. Many of our principal competitors are established companies that have substantial financial resources, recognised brands, technological expertise and vast market experience. These competitors sometimes have more established positions in certain product segments and geographic regions than we do. We also compete with smaller companies, some of which may be able to adopt new or emerging technologies or address customer requirements more quickly than we can or offer products as loss leaders. In particular: – Our competitors are continuously improving their products and services (such as by adding new content and functionalities), developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers; – Our competitors continue to acquire additional businesses in key sectors that will allow them to offer a broader array of products and services; – Some of our competitors market some of their products and services as commodities or lower-cost alternatives to our solutions, which may diminish the relative value of some of our products and services; – Some of our competitors combine competing products with complementary products as packaged solutions, which could pre-empt use of our products or solutions; – A number of our competitors may be considering strategic transactions, whereby they acquire, merge with or otherwise combine with one another or form partnerships with one another, in order to expand or enhance their product and service offerings and market position; – Educating our customers on the intricacies and uses of our products and services could, in certain cases, improve their ability to offer competing products and services as they look to expand their business models; – Some of our current or future products or services could be rendered obsolete as a result of competitive offerings or changes in regulation or the financial markets; – Barriers to entry to create a new product or offer a new service may be low in many cases, and reduced even further through the use of the Internet as a distribution channel, which has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, leading to the possible emergence of new competitors; and 5 Table of Contents – Implementation of annual price increases from time to time may, in some cases, cause customers to use lower-cost competitors. Competition may also require us to reduce the price of some of our products and services or make additional capital investments that would adversely affect our profit margins or cash flows. For instance, the increase of electronic trading of derivatives has created pricing and other competitive pressure on our Processing division, and in response we lowered the price points of certain products. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, or to make other price reductions or such additional capital investments, we may lose market share and our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, our strategic position in the marketplace and our opportunities to acquire, be acquired or partner with our competitors may be reduced if our competitors forge deeper or exclusive relationships with one another. We cannot assure anyone that our investments and our relationships with our partners have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies, products and services by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to compete effectively against current or future competitors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop successful new products and services or adapt to rapidly changing technology, our business could suffer serious harm. Our industry is characterised by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Our growth and success depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing customer needs. The process of developing our products and services is complex and may become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and technologies. Current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing, blockchain and the processing and analysing of large amounts of data. Our ability to keep up with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that: – we may find it difficult or costly to update our services and software and to develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our customers’ needs; – we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; and – we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the industries in which our customers operate. If we are unable to develop new products or services, if we are unable to successfully enhance and migrate existing products or services to new systems or if we are not successful in introducing or obtaining any required regulatory approval or acceptance for new products or services, we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. If we experience design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services or migration of an existing product or service to a new system, our business could suffer serious harm. Despite testing, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects after release. In addition, whether we release new products and services or migrate existing products and services to new systems or upgrade outdated software and infrastructure, our software may contain design defects and errors when first introduced or when major new updates or enhancements are released. We have also experienced delays in the past while developing and 6 Table of Contents introducing new products and services, primarily due to difficulties in licensing data inputs, developing new products or services, or adapting to particular operating environments. Additionally, in our development of new products and services or updates and enhancements to our existing products and services, we may make a major design error that causes the product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. Many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. Our customers may also use our products and services together with their own software, data or products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If design defects, errors or failures are discovered in our current or future products or services, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. The existence of design defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance of our products or services, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of licence renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. We may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around design defects, errors, failures or delays. In each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Declining activity levels in the securities, syndicated loan or derivatives markets, weak or declining financial performance of financial market participants or the failure of market participants could lower demand for our products and services and could affect our revenues. Our business is dependent upon the global financial markets as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets and the general economy. Unfavourable or uncertain economic conditions, economic instability or economic downturns could cause our customers or prospective customers to cancel, reduce or delay planned expenditures for our products and services, or impair our customers’ ability to pay for products or services they have purchased. This could adversely affect our financial results by reducing our revenue. In addition, a significant proportion of our revenue is variable and depends upon transaction volumes, investment levels (i.e., assets under management) or the number of positions we value. Lower activity levels in the financial markets, including lower transaction volumes, assets under management or positions taken could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We work on product development with, license data inputs for our products and services from, and generate a significant percentage of our total revenue from financial institutions who are not contractually obligated to continue to maintain these relationships and who also have similar involvement with our competitors. We earn a substantial portion of our revenue from and have worked on new product and service offerings with financial institution customers, some of whom were or are our shareholders. Many of these financial institution customers also provide us with data, which is a critical input for our products and services. Cooperation with these financial institution customers has also been important in the development of many of our products and services. Our financial institution customers have made, and may continue to make, investments in businesses that directly compete with us. Our customers also trade, and may continue to trade, on markets operated by our competitors. Reduced engagement from these financial institution customers may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our products and services, their desire to work with us on new product developments or their willingness to supply data and information services to us. Further, changes in regulation and other market factors may cause 7 Table of Contents these financial institutions to cease creating the datasets that are important to our products and services or to cease providing such datasets to us. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, participation in our products and services by these financial institution customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on third parties for data and information services. We depend upon data and information services from external sources, including data received from certain competitors, customers, shareholder financial institutions, and various government and public record services, for information used in certain of our products and services. In most cases, we do not own the information provided by these external sources, and the participating organisations could discontinue contributing information to the databases. Our data sources could also increase the price of, or withdraw, their data or information services for a variety of reasons, or we could become subject to legislative, regulatory, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of data, in particular if such data is not collected by the third parties in a way which allows us to process the data or use it legally. In addition, our competitors, which in some cases are our suppliers of data and information services, could enter into exclusive contracts with our existing or other data sources or information service providers, revise the current terms on which they provide us with data or services, alter or revise the data or services they provide without our knowledge, or cease providing us with data or services altogether for a variety of reasons, including ceasing or interrupting the provision of such data or services generally or to us specifically, such as declining to support us given our competing positions. If (i) a substantial number of data sources or certain key sources were to withdraw or were unable to provide us with their data or information services; (ii) we were to lose access to, or be precluded from receiving or restricted in using, data or information services due to exclusive contracts among our competitors, government regulation, or regulatory concerns of our suppliers; (iii) the collection of data were to become uneconomical or disrupted; (iv) there were concerns about the quality or accuracy of the data or services provided; or (v) we were unable to arrange for substitute sources of information internally or via another third-party provider, our ability to provide products and services to our customers could be impacted and our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. There may be consolidation in our customer market, which would reduce the use of our products and services. Mergers or consolidations among our customers, as a result of increased regulatory pressure or otherwise, could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. This could adversely affect our revenue even if these events do not reduce the activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or entities that use fewer of our products or services, such customers may discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services. For example, when Bank of America Corporation (together with its affiliates, “Bank of America”) acquired Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and its affiliates (“Merrill Lynch”), certain of our agreements with Merrill Lynch related to various products and services were eventually terminated and consolidated under our historical contracts with Bank of America. Any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The impact of cost-cutting pressures across the industry we serve could lower demand for our products and services. Our customers are focused on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the continued financial challenges and market uncertainty many of them face. Many large financial institutions have initiated, 8 Table of Contents and will continue to initiate, reductions in their workforces and have taken, and will continue to take, other measures to control or contain operational spending. Many of these institutions have also been subject to substantial penalties from regulatory bodies. Customers within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us. Alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial market products and services, such as by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial market products and services. If customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors or if customers elect to self-source their financial market product and service needs, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our customers may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers may, as some have in the past, internally develop certain products and services as well as functionality contained in the products and services that they currently obtain from us, including through the formation of consortia. For example, some of our customers who currently license our valuations data and analytics tools to analyse their portfolios and who do not require an independent source for these services may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products and services less useful to them. Furthermore, public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information, whether through the Internet, from governmental and regulatory agencies or from companies and other organisations, have become more readily available, and this trend is expected to continue. This greater availability of information could further assist our customers in independently developing certain products and services that we currently provide. To the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our products and services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to ongoing antitrust civil investigations and litigation arising from activities relating to credit default swaps and may in the future become subject to further investigations and litigation. An adverse outcome in these investigations or litigation could result in substantial fines, damages or penalties and could change how we offer products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to antitrust and competition laws and regulations in the countries where we have operations. These laws and regulations seek to prevent and prohibit anticompetitive activity. We are currently subject to antitrust and competition-related civil investigations by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and the Competition Directorate of the European Commission (the “EC”) as well as a consolidated class action lawsuit in the United States. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” for a description of these matters. These investigations and lawsuit involve multiple parties and complex claims that are subject to significant uncertainties and unspecified penalties or damages. Therefore, we cannot estimate the probability of loss or the extent of our potential liability on a standalone basis or relative to the potential liability of the other parties to the investigations and lawsuits. Future investigations and lawsuits relating to credit default swaps and other matters are also possible. 9 Table of Contents Depending on the outcome of any pending or future claims or investigations, we may be required to change the way we offer particular products or services, which could result in material disruptions to and costs incurred by our business, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, damages or an injunction or other equitable remedies. Pending or future claims or investigations (regardless of outcome) may also affect how parties interact with us, including the manner or type of data provided to us and the manner or type of data products and services purchased from us. These pending antitrust and competition-related claims and investigations, and any future claims and investigations, could also be costly to us in terms of time and expense incurred defending such claims or investigations. Any of the above impacts, individually or together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For some of our products and services, we typically face a long selling cycle to secure new contracts that requires significant resource commitments, resulting in a long lead time before we receive revenue. For new products and services and especially for complex products and services, we typically face a long selling cycle to secure each new contract, and there is generally a long preparation period before we commence providing products and services or delivering configurable software. For instance, our Analytics service provides a range of enterprise risk management software solutions, using the latest risk technology to deliver computation speed. The consultative nature of these projects requires our sales team to actively engage with potential customers through various procurement stages, often requiring many levels of internal approval, and including various milestone phases such as scoping, planning and proof of concept to reach deal closure, which typically takes 12 months or more. In addition, some products’ success are dependent on building a network of users, and may not be profitable while such a network is developing. We can incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle and we may not succeed in winning a new customer’s business, in which case we receive no revenue and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Current selling cycle periods have historically lengthened and could lengthen further, causing us to incur even higher business development expenses with no guarantee of winning a new customer’s business. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle or in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on network systems and the Internet, and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. Most of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data and other services on computer-based networks. Our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the Internet. Our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. For example, as a result of Hurricane Sandy in 2012, one of our data centres in New Jersey and part of our office space in New York City were flooded and unavailable, resulting in several days of reduced operations and substantial costs associated with repairs, relocation and resource reallocation to ensure continued delivery of our products and services. Further, we receive data inputs from critical third-party suppliers who are subject to the same delivery risks, such that if any of the foregoing issues affect these suppliers, we may be impacted as well. Significant growth of our customer base may also strain our systems in the future. Delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. In addition, a 10 Table of Contents number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. Although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centres, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. As such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. From time to time, the speed at which we are required to update market and customer data can increase. This can sometimes impact product and network performance. Factors that have significantly increased data update rates include high market volatility, new derivative instruments, increased automatically generated algorithmic and program trading and market fragmentation, resulting in an increased number of trading and clearing venues. Changes in legislation and regulation pertaining to market structure and dissemination of market information may also increase data flow rates. There can be no assurance that our company, our third-party data suppliers and our network providers will be able to accommodate accelerated growth of data volumes or avoid other failures or interruptions. We currently face significant increases in our use of power and data storage, and we may experience a shortage of capacity and increased costs associated with such usage. A significant delay or disruption of our network systems, servers or use of the Internet may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our existing insurance coverage may not cover all our losses. If embargoed data or non-public information relating to our PMI series of indices is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We own and administer the Purchasing Managers Index (“PMI”) series of indices, which are monthly economic surveys of selected companies that provide advance insight into the private sector economy. Among others, central banks use the PMI series data to help make interest rate decisions and financial analysts use the PMI series data to forecast official economic data. If, prior to the date of intended release, we are unable to limit access to the PMI series or prevent its unauthorised disclosure, whether inadvertent or deliberate, our reputation may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, we provide the PMI series data under embargo to certain financial information and news providers. Part of the value to us from doing so is that these news providers are able to analyse and provide commentary on the data simultaneously with the public release of such data by us. If the embargoed data is inadvertently disclosed or deliberately misused prior to our authorisation, financial markets could be negatively affected, and any resulting need to change our procedures around the provision of embargoed data to any third parties may diminish the value of the PMI series to our business. Fraudulent or unpermitted data access and other security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. Many of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. Security breaches in our facilities, computer networks, and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our products, services and systems and our suppliers’ and customers’ systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, including denial of service attacks, and other similarly disruptive activity. Recently, the financial services industry has been targeted for purposes of political protest, activism and fraud, as well as by foreign state actors and terrorist organisations seeking to disrupt the businesses and financial systems in the countries in which we operate. Cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain 11 Table of Contents unauthorised access to data, information security breaches or employee or contractor error or malfeasance and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorised release or destruction of our or our customers’ or other parties’ confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Further, employees of certain companies in the financial sector have misappropriated trade secrets or stolen source code in the past, and we could be a target for such illegal acts in the future. In addition, we rely on a system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of customer data, such as portfolio data and trading information that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee, consultant or third-party provider purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if we fail to adequately address the requirements of our customers’ internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorised access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, customer data could occur. Any such security or privacy breach, or unauthorised access, disclosure or misappropriation may adversely affect us in the following ways: – losing sales; – deterring customers from using our products or services; – affecting our ability to meet customers’ expectations; – deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us; – harming our reputation; – disclosing valuable trade secrets, know-how or other confidential information; – exposing us to liability by our customers or regulators; – increasing operating expenses to correct problems caused by the breach and to prevent future breaches of a similar nature; – breaching terms of agreements; – violating certain data privacy or related legislation; or – causing inquiry or penalisation from governmental authorities. Our existing resources and measures to maintain data and information security have not always in the past been, and may not always in the future be, sufficient or effective. In the past, we have experienced security breaches, unauthorised disclosures and cyber incidents, as well as occasional system interruptions that have made some of our services or websites unavailable for limited periods of time. Third-party providers also may experience security breaches and unauthorised disclosures involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information. Although we expend significant resources and oversight efforts in an attempt to ensure that we maintain appropriate safeguards with respect to cyber-attacks, there is no guarantee that our systems and procedures are adequate to protect against all security attacks. If anyone gains improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our confidential information or that of a third-party stored or transmitted on our networks. Any significant failure, compromise, unauthorised access or disclosure, 12 Table of Contents cyber-breach or interruption of our systems, including operational services, loss of service from third parties, sabotage, break-ins, failure of controls, war, terrorist activities, power or coding loss or computer viruses could result in lack of availability, loss of data integrity, fraud, unauthorised disclosure or other outcomes harmful to our business. Any breach of data, controls or information security caused by one of these events could also result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorised access to, company, customer, vendor, employee or other confidential data or information that could be material. We receive important services, software and technologies from third-party providers, and any errors, failures or disruption in the services or technologies provided by these third parties could harm our customer relationships or our reputation. We rely on third-party providers for integral services, software and technologies. These providers include those that provide services for our principal infrastructure, such as software provided by SunGard, Dell, Microsoft and Symantec, which are key components to many of our systems, as well as providers of services and technologies that are integral to specific products, such as the operational services provided by Genpact in our Markit Genpact KYC Services joint venture. Several of these providers are also our competitors. These services, software and technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of such services, software and technologies are critical to our ability to generate revenues, as well as to our reputation. Any errors, failures to perform, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party providers could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We have little control over these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability to errors, failures, interruptions or disruptions or problems with their services or technologies. Should the companies providing such services, software and technologies cease providing or supporting, or significantly increase the cost of services, software and technologies, it would be difficult to replace some or all of such services, software or technologies, and we may incur significant costs or product development delays until we either develop or, if available, identify, obtain and integrate, alternative services, software or technology into our systems. Our use of open source software and third-party software containing open source elements could result in litigation or impose unanticipated restrictions on our ability to commercialise our products and services. We use open source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service, to augment algorithms, functionalities or libraries created by Markit, and we may use more open source software in the future. For example, our Analytics product and certain of our foreign exchange products all use ANTLR, an industry-standard parser for reading, processing, executing or translating structured text or binary files, which is licensed pursuant to the permissive Berkeley Software Distribution licence. Open source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of the licence for such open source software. The terms of many open source licences are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licences could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialise our products and services. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to remove open source elements from or otherwise change our software. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary technology with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licences, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If we 13 Table of Contents inappropriately use open source software, we may also be required to re-engineer our software, license our software on unfavourable terms or at no cost, discontinue certain products and services or take other remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may face liability for content contained in our products and services. We may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, regulations or other theories of liability, in each case relating to the data, articles, commentary, ratings, information or other content we collect and distribute in the provision of our products and services. If such data or other content or information that we distribute has errors, is delayed or has design defects, we could be subject to liability or our reputation could suffer. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our corporate website or those websites that we own and operate through links to other websites. Further, we could be subject to claims that we have misused data inputs provided by third-party suppliers. Use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that customers, or the parties whose assets are managed by our customers, may pursue claims against us for significant amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favourable to us, could involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, such claims and lawsuits, or any resulting reputational harm, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on world-class personnel to operate and grow our business, and if we do not continue to recruit, motivate and retain high-quality management and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategies. The performance of our strategies depends on our ability to continue to recruit, motivate and retain our executive officers and other key management, sales, marketing, product development and operations personnel across our entire business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, each of them may terminate their employment with us at any time. We compete with many businesses that are seeking skilled individuals, including those with advanced technical abilities. Competition for professionals in our Information, Solutions and Processing divisions can be intense, as other companies seek to enhance their positions in our market segments. The replacement of any of our key personnel would likely involve significant time and costs and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. In addition, we do not carry any “key person” insurance policies that could offset potential loss of service under applicable circumstances. A significant amount of the equity interests in our company that were granted to our employees prior to our initial public offering became fully vested at the time of our initial public offering. As a result, some of our employees may be able to realise substantial financial gains in connection with the sales of their vested equity interests, which could result in a loss of these employees. We also intend to continue to use equity incentive awards as a means of retaining senior employees. With respect to option awards, if our share price does not appreciate above the exercise price at which option awards are granted or there is a significant decline in our share price relative to the exercise price at which equity awards have been granted or will be granted in the future, the value of option awards as a retention tool would decline. In addition, any future organisational changes, including the integration of new acquisitions with our other business units, could cause our employee attrition rate to increase. The loss of the services of key personnel or our inability to otherwise recruit, motivate or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We generate a significant percentage of our revenue from recurring fixed fee agreements, and our ability to maintain existing revenue and to generate higher revenue is dependent in part on maintaining a high renewal rate. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we generated 56.1% of our revenue from recurring fixed fees, which are typically subscription agreements. Although the initial term of our subscription agreements can range from one to five years and many of them include auto-renewal clauses, with appropriate notice, certain of these arrangements are cancellable. To maintain existing fixed revenue and to generate higher revenue, we rely on a significant number of our customers renewing their subscriptions with us or not cancelling their subscriptions. Our revenue could also be adversely impacted if a significant number of our customers renewed their subscriptions with us but reduced the amount of their spending on those subscriptions. Our growth and profitability may not be sustained at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced significant growth during our operating history. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. We seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our products and services to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, by cross-selling our products and services across our existing customer base, by acquiring new customers, by entering into strategic partnerships, through acquisitions and by implementing operational efficiency initiatives. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives or drive operational efficiencies, our growth rates and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our expansion efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth rates or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. Any failure to continue to grow our business, successfully implement operational efficiency initiatives or maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to manage our operating expenses as anticipated or our operating expenses are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. We may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs. If operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. Our brand and reputation are important company assets and are key to our ability to remain a trusted source of our products and services. The integrity of our brand and reputation is key to our ability to remain a trusted source of products and services and to attract and retain customers. Negative publicity regarding Markit or actual, alleged or perceived issues regarding one of our products or services could harm our relationships with customers and partners. Failure to protect our brand may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted supplier of content and may have a negative impact on our business. 15 Table of Contents We enter into redistribution arrangements that allow other firms to represent certain of our products and services. It is difficult to monitor whether such agents’ representation of our products and services is accurate. In the past, certain companies have used our products and services to attract customers without our permission to do so. Poor representation of our products and services by our partners or agents, or entities acting without our permission, could have an adverse effect on our reputation and our business. Changes in legislation or changes in governmental or quasi-governmental rules, regulations, directives or standards may decrease demand for our products and services, prevent us from offering certain products and services or increase our expenses. Most of our customers operate within a highly regulated environment and must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental rules, regulations, directives and standards. Over the past few years, the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions have introduced new legislation and regulation of financial markets, including the OTC derivatives markets from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue. For example: – Legislation and regulation in the United States such as The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and in the European Union such as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”), the original Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), the new Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (“MiFIR”) mandate that many OTC derivatives be centrally cleared through regulated clearinghouses, traded on organised trading venues and reported to trade repositories and, in many cases, also to the public, and subject market participants to business conduct, risk management, capital, margin and recordkeeping rules, among other requirements. The final details of technical standards related to implementation of MiFID II/MiFIR may also reduce demand in Europe for other products and services we offer. – New capital rules, including Basel III, the Capital Requirements Directive IV (“CRD IV”) and the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (“FRTB”) require higher capital charges for many bank trading activities and mandatory margin requirements for non-cleared derivatives will apply beginning in 2016. – The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has proposed rules for registered investment companies that would place hard limits on their ability to utilise derivatives which, if finalised, could limit buy-side participation in derivatives markets. – A financial transaction tax proposal being discussed in Europe would increase the cost to trade financial instruments. – New regulatory regimes around the world, including in the United States and the European Union, have contributed to a shift towards centralised clearing, exchange or exchange-like trading, and further standardisation in the derivatives markets. – New rules promulgated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC require free, public dissemination of certain information relating to OTC derivative transactions, including pricing and other trade terms. Similar public trade reporting regimes are expected in other jurisdictions. – International regulators, working through the International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”) and supported by national regulators are prompting the development of a unique product identifier (“UPI”) classification scheme for financial instruments. 16 Table of Contents New legislation, or a significant change in rules, regulations, directives or standards, including those described above, as well as ones that may in the future be introduced, could impact where and how our customers invest, which could cause some of our products and services to become obsolete, reduce demand for our products and services or increase our expenses as we modify our products and services to maintain relevancy. Delays in adapting our products and services to legislative and regulatory changes could harm our reputation. Also, we may not be as well equipped to respond to changes in legislation or regulation as some of our competitors or we may become subject to new legislation or regulation with regard to the services we offer which could cause us to be prohibited from providing certain services or make provision of affected services more expensive. If our customers reduce their use of our products and services as a result of any of the above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to increased regulation of our services, including our index, pricing and processing services. Our customers rely on many of our products and services to meet their operational, regulatory or compliance needs. As part of global regulatory reform efforts we may become subject to increased regulation of our services, which could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. We are currently subject to limited direct regulation around our processing and compression businesses, which are subject to supervision by the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority. None of our other businesses are currently subject to direct regulation. Certain products and services we offer could become subject to direct regulation as a result of various regulatory initiatives. For example: – In December 2015, the European Union agreed on a new regulation of benchmarks in Europe, which is expected to apply beginning in 2018. It would require benchmark administrators to be authorised and subject to ongoing supervision by EU regulators, and supervised entities in the European Union may only be able to use benchmarks as a reference in a financial instrument if the benchmark is provided by an entity authorised in the European Union or a third country deemed equivalent. Because of the nature of our operations, we may be deemed to be a “benchmark administrator” under these upcoming regulations and subject to additional direct regulation. – The SEC has proposed standards for clearing agency operation and governance under which intermediating organisations, such as MarkitSERV, that capture trade information and perform an independent comparison of such information for confirmation purposes could be considered clearing agencies and required to register with the SEC or to seek an exemption from registration. If any such regulations were implemented and our derivatives processing business was required to register as a clearing agency with the SEC or to seek an exemption from regulation, we would become subject to significant additional compliance burdens. – In December 2014, IOSCO and the Committee on Payments and Settlement Systems published a final report that establishes an assessment methodology and provides guidance for regulatory authorities in assessing a financial market infrastructure’s “critical service providers” against the oversight expectations for such critical service providers described in their 2012 report on financial market infrastructures. Such guidance includes descriptions of planning, due diligence, third-party selection, contract negotiation, ongoing monitoring of third-party relationships, oversight and accountability, and documentation and reporting that financial institutions should consider when outsourcing functions. Certain of our products and services in which we function as a “third-party service provider” are contractually subject to those regulations and guidance with certain customers, requiring us to incur significant product structuring and compliance costs to meet required regulations and guidance. This guidance could also increase regulatory scrutiny of critical service providers and be an impetus for direct regulation or further heightened standards of critical service providers. 17 Table of Contents – As regulations and legislation over derivatives and other financial instruments in Europe and Asia continue to evolve, our products and services could become subject to direct regulatory oversight or heightened standards. – Existing, new and conflicting legislation and regulation, relating to e-commerce, electronic and mobile communications, privacy and data protection, outsourcing, anti-money laundering, direct marketing and digital advertising and the use of public records, and judicial interpretation of such legislation and regulation, may limit our ability to collect, use and effectively communicate to our customers certain kinds of information. It is difficult to predict how such regulation will affect us directly or through our customers or suppliers. Any additional regulation, directly or indirectly, could impact our ability to provide such products and services or impose significant new regulatory compliance burdens on our business. If were to fail to maintain or otherwise forfeit any required regulatory licenses or registrations, or if we were otherwise found to be in material non-compliance with applicable regulatory or legislative requirements, we might not be able to continue offering the products and services or operating the impacted portions of our business. We could be subject to fines or penalties as well as reputational harm for any violations or non-compliance. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we expect to continue to innovate to meet the evolving needs of our customers and our business strategy includes the introduction of new products and services as well as enhancements to existing products and services. To the extent any new products or services or enhancements would require us to obtain new licenses from regulatory authorities, we may not be able to secure the required licenses or registrations. If we are not able to secure the required licenses or registrations, we may not be able to provide one or more of these new services or enhancements, which in turn could result in us not being able to compete as effectively, or impact our revenue growth rate and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully identify acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances or we experience integration or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances our financial results may be adversely affected. Acquisitions have been and continue to be an important part of our growth strategy. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire or make strategic investments in, complementary businesses, technologies or services or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties to enhance our business. We seek to be a disciplined acquirer, but we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, strategic investments or partnership or alliance candidates on favourable terms, if at all. Attractive candidates are difficult to identify and such acquisitions are difficult to complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers or partners, the need in some instances for regulatory approvals, including antitrust clearance, and market conditions changing the availability of debt or equity financing on commercially acceptable terms. We may not be able to identify and successfully complete acquisitions on acceptable commercial terms, or at all, or enter into beneficial strategic investments, partnerships or alliances, which may negatively affect our competitiveness and growth prospects and our ability to scale our operations and business plans in certain markets. The success of these types of transactions is also subject to numerous risks, including: – making incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired businesses, technologies or services or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realised as a result of acquiring businesses, technologies or services; 18 Table of Contents – difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel; – failure to achieve assumed or anticipated synergies; – incurring costs in excess of what we anticipate; – difficulties in supporting, transitioning and retaining suppliers and customers of our acquired companies or strategic partners; – increasing dependencies on strategic partners for revenue, including increased dependency on the revenue that such partners retain their customers; – entering new markets; – difficulties in working effectively, collaboratively or efficiently with strategic partner or alliances; – diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; – potential loss of key team members; – inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset transaction costs; – incurring expenses associated with the amortisation or impairment of intangible assets, particularly for intellectual property, goodwill and other intangible assets; – failure to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; – payment of more than fair market value for an acquired company or assets, particularly those with significant intangible assets and those whose assets derive value using novel products and/or are involved in niche markets; and – to the extent we enter into joint ventures and alliances, experiencing difficulties in the development and expansion of the business of any newly formed ventures, exercising influence over the activities of any ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest, and encountering potential conflicts with our joint venture or alliance partners. If any of the above risks are realised, we might fail to achieve the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition, strategic investment, partnership or alliance we undertake. In addition, we may incur earn-out and contingent consideration payments in connection with future acquisitions, which could result in a higher than expected impact on our future earnings. We may also finance future transactions through debt financing, including significant draws on our revolving credit facility, the issuance of our equity securities, the use of existing cash, cash equivalents or investments or a combination of the foregoing. Acquisitions financed with debt could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to principal and interest payments and could subject us to restrictive covenants. Acquisitions financed with the issuance of our equity securities would be dilutive to the share value and voting power of existing common shares, which could affect the market price of our common shares. Future acquisitions financed with our own cash could deplete the cash and working capital available to fund our operations adequately. Difficulty borrowing funds, selling securities or generating sufficient cash from operations to finance our activities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our relationships with third-party service providers, including market data vendors, trade order, risk, accounting and portfolio management service providers and other market participants, may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have commercial relationships with third-party service providers whose capabilities complement our own, including market data vendors, trade order, risk, accounting and portfolio management service providers and other market participants. In some cases, these providers are also our competitors. A significant portion of our products and services are developed using third-party service providers’ data or services, or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers’ use through information and technology solutions provided by such third-party service providers. The priorities and objectives of these providers, particularly those that are our competitors, may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases and may cause some service providers not to renew certain agreements. Moreover, providers that are not currently our competitors, including one or more of our key providers, may become competitors or be acquired by or merge with a competitor in the future, any of which could reduce our access over time to the information and technology solutions provided by those companies. As we expand our product and service offerings, whether through organic growth or acquisitions, we may launch products and services that compete with providers that are not currently our competitors, which could negatively impact our existing relationships. If we do not obtain the expected benefits from our relationships with third-party service providers or if a substantial number of our third-party service providers were to withdraw their services, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer products and services to our customers may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, we rely on other third-party service providers for management of our data centres, telecommunications, data processing, software development and certain human resources functions. If we are unable to sustain commercially acceptable arrangements with these service providers or find substitutes or alternative sources of service, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Third parties may claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. We are significantly dependent on technology, processes, methodologies and information, as well as the intellectual property rights related to them. Companies in our industry, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent and other intellectual property protection for their data, technologies and business methods. If any third-party owns a patent or other intellectual property covering any of our data, technologies or business methods, we could be sued for infringement. We may also misuse data from our third-party suppliers or from other parties outside the terms of our licences with such suppliers or without the proper licence with such other parties. Furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets, or otherwise challenge our use of technology, processes, methodologies or information. We do not actively monitor third-party patents and patent applications that may be relevant to our technologies or business methods, and it is not possible for us to detect all potentially relevant patents and patent applications. Since the patent application process can take several years to complete, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that cover our products and technologies. As a result, we may infringe existing and future third-party patents of which we are not aware. From time to time, we may receive offers to license, notices of claims or threats from third parties alleging infringement or potential infringement of their intellectual property. The number of these claims may grow as our business expands. We have made and may make expenditures related to the use of certain intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. 20 Table of Contents Responding to claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation and delay certain operations of our business. We may be forced to settle such claims on unfavourable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation or proceeding arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. We may be required to pay damages and legal expenses, stop providing or using the affected technologies, processes, methodologies or information, redesign our products and services or enter into royalty and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. Such litigation or proceedings could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property rights. We have in the past and may also be in the future called upon to defend partners, customers, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our agreements. Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect our intellectual property and confidential information adequately, in the United States and abroad, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright, misappropriation and domain name laws and all other intellectual property laws to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights in such technology, processes, methodologies and information. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In addition, the existing laws of certain countries in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Even if we have intellectual property rights, there is no guarantee that such rights will provide adequate protection of our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies or information, a competitive advantage to our business or deterrence against infringement, misappropriation or other violations of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties. In addition, third parties may try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. For example, future regulatory requirements in relation to the provision of access, such as MiFIR in Europe which would require owners of benchmark intellectual property to provide open, non-discriminatory access to benchmark information and licences to trading and clearing venues, may have a negative impact on our ability to protect and monetise our intellectual property, decreasing its value. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor, enforce or protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Despite such efforts, we may not be able to detect unauthorised use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Even if we attempt to enforce or protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others through litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities or administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful in such litigation or proceedings. In the past, we have sent cease and desist letters to third parties to enforce our trademark rights, but there can be no guarantee that such actions will be successful. If we fail to enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights, our competitive position could suffer. Furthermore, our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing or securing rights to products or services that are similar to or duplicative of ours, using trademarks that are similar to ours in different fields of goods and services, reverse engineering our technologies or designing around our patents. Even if we are able to enter into licensing or restricted use agreements with business partners, or coexistence agreements with third- 21 Table of Contents party trademark owners, such parties may breach the terms of these agreements. Any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We further attempt to protect our confidential and proprietary information, trade secrets and know-how by requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and third parties, such as customers and vendors, to enter into non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorised use or disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of such unauthorised use or disclosure. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to comply with applicable complex and changing laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, surveillance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to regulations including the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). While we have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. In addition, some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations and proceedings that may be very expensive to defend and may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages which can be significant. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In extreme cases, these outcomes could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business. Further, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, such as corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, or changes in or unfavourable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to operate, expand and enhance our products and services as necessary to remain competitive and grow our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our revenue, operating profit and the value of balance sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. These changes cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher or lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain 22 Table of Contents currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labour and other costs that are denominated in local currency. There can be no assurance that our contractual provisions will offset their impact, or that our currency hedging activities, which are designed to partially offset this impact, will be successful. Consequently, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities and derivatives regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labour relations. For example, our operations in the United States are subject to U.S. laws on these diverse matters, which are different in several respects from the laws of the United Kingdom and India where we have significant operations. We also have operations in emerging market jurisdictions where legal systems may be less developed or less familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our customers also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution, unfavourable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Because of the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate or seek to expand, practices in the local business community may not conform to international business standards and could violate anti-corruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, joint venture partners and other third parties with which we associate could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. We have substantial operations and a significant number of employees in India, and we are therefore subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. We currently have approximately 1,100 employees located in India. The economy of India may differ favourably or unfavourably from the United Kingdom and United States economies, and our business may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies. In particular, in recent years, India’s government has adopted policies that are designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalised import 23 Table of Contents and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriations. These policies may not continue. In addition, we are subject to risks relating to social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. A vote by the U.K. electorate in favor of a U.K. exit from the E.U. in a forthcoming in-or-out referendum could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.K. Government has announced that it will hold an in-or-out referendum on the United Kingdom’s membership of the European Union in June 2016. If the referendum results in a U.K. exit from the E.U. (“Brexit”), a process of negotiation would determine the future terms of the United Kingdom’s relationship with the European Union. We are headquartered and tax domiciled in the UK and conduct business in Europe primarily through our U.K. subsidiaries. In the event of Brexit, we would likely face new regulatory costs and challenges. For example, our U.K. operations could lose their E.U. financial services passport which provides them the license to operate across borders within the single E.U. market without obtaining local regulatory approval. Depending on the terms of Brexit, if any, the United Kingdom could also lose access to the single E.U. market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the European Union on behalf of its members. Such a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the United Kingdom as a global investment centre and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on U.K. growth. The uncertainty prior to the referendum could also have a negative impact on the U.K. economy. Although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the Pound Sterling and the U.K. economy. Changes to U.K. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit. Although the United Kingdom would likely retain its diverse pool of talent, London’s role as a global financial centre may decline, particularly if financial institutions shift their operations to the European Union and the E.U. financial services passport is not maintained. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Operating globally involves challenges that may adversely affect our ability to grow. As of December 31, 2015, we had offices in 13 countries, and we expect the number of countries in which we operate to increase as we seek out growth opportunities in new geographic areas, including emerging markets and developing economies. There are certain risks inherent in doing business globally which may adversely affect our business and ability to grow. These risks include difficulties in penetrating new markets because of established and entrenched competitors, difficulties in developing products and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers, lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and services, lack of recognition of our brands, products or services, unavailability of joint venture partners or local companies for acquisition, unavailability of local suppliers to support our products and services, instability of international economies and governments, exposure to adverse government action in countries where we may conduct reporting activities, changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment in other jurisdictions, restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad, and exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws. Adverse developments in any of these areas could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Expanding our business into emerging markets and developing economies may also present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. In any emerging markets and developing economies, we may face the risks of working in cash-based economies, dealing with inconsistent government policies and encountering sudden currency revaluations. 24 Table of Contents We may be required to take future impairment charges that would reduce our reported assets and earnings. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets constitute a substantial portion of our total assets. We are required under IFRS to test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis. We also are required by IFRS to perform an interim or periodic review of our goodwill and all identifiable intangible assets if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Impairment testing requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. Economic, legal, regulatory, competitive, contractual and other factors, as well as changes in our share price and market capitalisation, may affect these assumptions. In 2014, we incurred a $39.8 million impairment charge related to our Analytics and Credit Centre businesses. If future testing indicates that impairment has occurred relative to current fair values, we may be required to record a non-cash impairment charge in the period the determination is made. Recognition of an impairment would reduce our reported assets and earnings. International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our customers and thus adversely affect our results of operations. Acts of terrorist violence, cyber-terrorism, political unrest, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, including hurricanes or floods, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. These events could adversely affect our customers’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our employees and our physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our third-party service providers or customers. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at our facilities or otherwise, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. We may be unable to protect our employees, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in our rates of taxation, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for such taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. The amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We seek to run Markit Ltd. in such a way that it is and remains tax resident in the United Kingdom. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to 25 Table of Contents determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic, political or other factors. Increases in the tax rate in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: – making it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; – events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; – sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; – reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; – limiting our flexibility and increasing our costs in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; – placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less indebtedness or are less leveraged; and – increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our indebtedness obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness or financing costs, including incurring secured indebtedness and repaying outstanding indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. If we add additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could increase. 26 Table of Contents We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the ordinary shares of Markit Group Holdings Limited that we hold. Markit Group Holdings Limited is the parent of Markit Group Limited, which, together with its subsidiaries, owns substantially all of our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations. Certain Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: – regulatory or legal developments in the countries in which we or our customers operate; – actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; – the failure of financial analysts to cover our common shares; – changes in financial estimates by financial analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any of these estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any financial analysts that elect to follow our common shares or the shares of our competitors; – changes in market valuation of similar companies; – announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; – introduction of new products, services or technologies by us or our competitors; – significant lawsuits or disputes in which we are a party; – future sales of our shares by us or our shareholders; – general economic, industry and market conditions; – additions and departures of key personnel; – investor perceptions of us and the financial services industry; – failure of any of our products or services to achieve or maintain market acceptance; and – the other factors described in this “Item 3. Key Information—D. Risk Factors” section. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our shares to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our shares. Under our memorandum of association and bye-laws that took effect upon completion of our corporate reorganisation, we are authorised to issue up to 3,000,000,000 common shares, of which 176,786,908 common shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2015, excluding 25,219,470 issued and outstanding common shares held by the Markit Group Holdings Limited Employee Benefit Trust. Upon consummation of our initial public offering, we entered into a registration rights and lock-up agreement with certain of our existing shareholders and with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (“CPPIB”). See “Item 7.Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Transactions with Related Parties—Registration Rights Agreement” for a description of the terms of this agreement. Following the expiration of the lock-up periods set forth in that agreement, these shareholders will have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their securities under the Securities Act, for as long as each holds unregistered securities. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. Sales of common shares by these or any other shareholders, including through the exercise of options and the sale of shares by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our shares or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares. In addition, in February 2016, General Atlantic entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which it pledged 23,275,970 of our common shares to secure a $170.0 million loan. If General Atlantic were to default on its obligations under the loan and not timely post additional collateral, the lender would have the right to sell shares to satisfy General Atlantic’s obligation. Such an event could cause our share price to decline. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. Our initial public offering has had a significant transformative effect on us. We incur significant additional legal, accounting, tax (by virtue of U.K. National Insurance requirements), reporting and other expenses as a result of having publicly traded common shares. We also incurred costs which we have not incurred previously, including, but not limited to, costs and expenses for directors’ fees, increased insurance for directors and officers, investor relations and various other costs of a public company. As a public company, we have also incurred costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some management and corporate governance activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more 28 Table of Contents expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to recruit a qualified board of directors. The additional demands associated with being a public company may disrupt regular operations of our business by diverting the attention of some of our senior management team away from revenue producing activities to management and administrative oversight, adversely affecting our ability to attract and complete business opportunities and increasing the difficulty in both retaining professionals and managing and growing our business. Any of these effects could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Failure to comply with Section 404 could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, impair our ability to raise revenue, cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and negatively affect our share price. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we do, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure and corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. This may be less favourable to holders of our common shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the same disclosure and procedural requirements as domestic U.S. registrants under the Exchange Act. For instance, we are not required to prepare and file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, we are not subject to the proxy requirements under Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and we are not generally required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material non-public information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are permitted to disclose compensation information for our executive officers on an aggregate, rather than an individual, basis because individualised compensation disclosure is not required under Bermuda law. We do, however, intend to furnish our shareholders with annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent auditors and to make available to our shareholders quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year. We are also exempt from certain corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. For example, Rule 5605 of NASDAQ’s corporate governance listing rules (the “NASDAQ Rules”) requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of their board members be independent, and to have independent director oversight of executive compensation, nomination of directors and corporate governance matters. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are permitted to follow Bermuda practice in lieu of the above requirements, under which there is no requirement that a majority of our directors be independent. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” We will lose our foreign private issuer status if we fail to meet the requirements under U.S. securities laws necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to prepare and report our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States rather than IFRS, and that transition would involve significant cost and time. We would also be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic 29 Table of Contents issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on NASDAQ that are available to foreign private issuers. Insiders continue to have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. As of December 31, 2015, our shareholders who own more than 5% of our common shares (and entities affiliated with them) and our directors and executive officers collectively beneficially own approximately 50.8% of our issued and outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including amendments to our bye-laws, the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In addition, they could influence our dividend policy. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common shares. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our common shares. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our common shares, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our common shares. The payment of any future dividends will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” Volatility in our share price could subject us to securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following declines in the market price of their securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because financial services companies have experienced significant share price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A number of our directors and some of the named experts referred to in this annual report are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the 30 Table of Contents United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our common shares. We are organised under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act 1981 (the “Companies Act”), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions are not available under Bermuda law. The circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under Bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of U.S. corporations. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for: – a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; – directors only to be removed for cause; – restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; – our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and 31 Table of Contents – an affirmative vote of 66-2/3% of our voting shares for certain “business combination” transactions which have not been approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. If we are, or were to become, a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. investors in our common shares would be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. In general, a non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if (i) 75% or more of its gross income consists of passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of its assets consists of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. We believe that we were not a PFIC for our 2015 taxable year. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held common shares, such investor would be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as ineligibility for any preferred tax rates on capital gains or on actual or deemed dividends, an additional interest charge on certain taxes treated as deferred, and additional reporting requirements under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations. If we are characterised as a PFIC, a U.S. investor may be able to make a “mark-to-market” election with respect to our common shares that would alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status. Although U.S. tax rules also permit a U.S. investor to make a “qualified electing fund” election with respect to the shares of a foreign corporation that is a PFIC if the foreign corporation provides certain information to its investors, we do not currently intend to provide the information that would be necessary for a U.S. investor to make a valid “qualified electing fund” election with respect to our common shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 