D. Risk Factors Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, subordinated units and general partner units. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.375 per unit on our common units, subordinated units and general partner units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the risks described in this section, including, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; • the continued availability of natural gas production, liquefaction and regasification facilities; • the price and demand for natural gas and oil; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews, vessel maintenance and insurance; • the number of off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, drydocking of vessels; • the supply of LNG carriers; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • changes in local income tax rates; 7 • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining or replacing vessels and complying with regulations; • our debt service requirements, including fluctuations in interest rates, and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; • the level of debt we will incur to fund future acquisitions, including if we exercise our options to purchase any additional vessels from GasLog; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make, and the level of, working capital borrowings; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, working capital and other matters, established by our board of directors, which cash reserves are not subject to any specified maximum dollar amount. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for a specified period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods in which we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record a profit. Our ability to grow and to meet our financial needs may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement) each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution, our board of directors approves the amount of cash reserves to set aside, including reserves for future maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, working capital and other matters. We also rely upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings, to fund our capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing, our cash distribution policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and expand our fleet, which will reduce cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and replace, over the long-term, the operating capacity of our fleet. Maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus totaled $31.05 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We estimate that future maintenance and replacement capital expenditures will average approximately $38.74 million per full year, including potential costs related to replacing current vessels at the end of their useful lives. Maintenance and replacement capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with (i) the removal of a vessel from the water for inspection, maintenance and/or repair of submerged parts (or drydocking) and (ii) modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel, to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain or replace the operating capacity of our fleet. These 8 expenditures could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • the size of our fleet; • the cost of replacement vessels; • length of charters; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; • competitive standards; and • the age of our ships. Significant capital expenditures, including to maintain and replace, over the long-term, the operating capacity of our fleet, may reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our board of directors to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus (as defined in our partnership agreement). The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our board of directors underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures exceed our previous estimates. If capital expenditures are financed through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished, our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders may be diluted. Use of cash from operations to expand or maintain our fleet will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain our current level of quarterly distributions to unitholders, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. Any limitation in the availability or operation of our ships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which effect would be amplified by the small size of our fleet. Our fleet consists of eight LNG carriers that are in operation. If any of our ships is unable to generate revenues for any significant period of time for any reason, including unexpected periods of off-hire or early charter termination (which could result from damage to our ships), our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, could be materially and adversely affected. The impact of any limitation in the 9 operation of our ships or any early charter termination would be amplified during the period prior to acquisition of additional vessels, as a substantial portion of our cash flows and income is dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our eight LNG carriers in operation. In addition, the costs of ship repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. In the event of repair costs that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may have to pay for such repair costs, which would decrease our earnings and cash flows. Any charter termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our charterer has the right to terminate a ship’s time charter in certain circumstances, such as: • loss of the ship or damage to it beyond repair; • if the ship is off-hire for any reason other than scheduled drydocking for a period exceeding 90 consecutive days, or for more than 90 days in any one-year period; • defaults by us in our obligations under the charter; or • the outbreak of war or hostilities involving two or more major nations, such as the United States or the People’s Republic of China, that would materially and adversely affect the trading of the ship for a period of at least 30 days. A termination right under one ship’s time charter would not automatically give the charterer the right to terminate its other charter contracts with us. However, a charter termination could materially affect our relationship with the customer and our reputation in the LNG shipping industry, and in some circumstances the event giving rise to the termination right could potentially impact multiple charters. Accordingly, the existence of any right of termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. If we lose a charter, we may be unable to obtain a new time charter on terms as favorable to us or with a charterer of comparable standing, particularly if we are seeking new time charters at a time when charter rates in the LNG industry are depressed. Consequently, we may have an increased exposure to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. In the event that we are unable to re-deploy a ship for which a charter has been terminated, we will not receive any revenues from that ship, and we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the ship in proper operating condition. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in the LNG transportation industry could adversely affect our business, particularly if such developments occur at a time when we are seeking a new charter. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from charters for our LNG vessels. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the LNG transportation industry could have a significantly greater impact on our business, particularly if such developments occur at a time when our ships are not under charter or nearing the end of their charters, than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of businesses. We currently derive all of our revenues from a single customer and will continue to depend on one customer for nearly all of our revenues after our expected acquisition of additional vessels from GasLog. This customer was recently acquired by another energy company which could impact our ability to maintain our relationship with this customer. The loss of this customer would result in a significant loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently derive all of our revenues from one customer, MSL, a subsidiary of BG Group. Following the expected acquisition of additional vessels from GasLog, MSL will continue to be a key customer, as at least seven of the vessels over which we have options to acquire from GasLog, will be chartered to MSL. In addition, two of the vessels that we will have options to acquire from 10 GasLog have been or will be chartered to a subsidiary of Shell. Shell’s acquisition of BG Group is expected to become effective on February 15, 2016. Although MSL’s contractual obligations under the charter agreements are not impacted by the acquisition, we cannot provide assurance that we and GasLog will be able to maintain our business relationship with BG Group following its integration into Shell. In addition, the combination of BG Group and Shell could increase our future customer concentration because all of the vessels we have the right to acquire from GasLog are chartered to subsidiaries of BG Group or Shell. Furthermore, we could lose our customer or the benefits of our time charter arrangements for many different reasons, including if the customer is unable or unwilling to make charter hire or other payments to us because of a deterioration in its financial condition, disagreements with us or otherwise. If our customer terminates its charters, chooses not to re-charter our ships after the initial charter terms or is unable to perform under its charters and we are not able to find replacement charters on similar terms, we will suffer a loss of revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our relationship with GasLog, and failure of GasLog to comply with certain of its financial covenants under its debt instruments could, among other things, limit or prevent us from acquiring future vessels from GasLog, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain of GasLog’s existing debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions on GasLog, including financial maintenance covenants. GasLog’s ability to meet certain operating and financial restrictions in its existing debt instruments is dependent in part on the charter rates which it obtains for its vessels. The current charter rates available for spot/short-term charters of LNG carriers are at historically low levels. Despite this environment, GasLog continues to conclude spot/short term charters for LNG carriers. Additionally, during the course of 2015 GasLog has entered into a number of long-term charters at attractive rates and continues to actively seek charters on its open vessels in the long-term charter market. GasLog is also active in the LNG shipping spot market through its participation in The Cool Pool Limited with Golar LNG Ltd. and Dynagas Ltd. However, if GasLog should fail to enter into additional short-term or long-term charters or should fail to successfully take other steps which would reduce debt service requirements and/or improve EBITDA, it may be required to seek a waiver under its bank credit facilities. GasLog continuously monitors and manages its covenant compliance. Under GasLog’s credit facilities, as is typical with secured credit facilities generally, a default by the borrower permits the lenders to exercise remedies as secured creditors which, if such a default was to occur, could include foreclosing on GasLog vessels. Our future growth, which is expected to be based on the acquisition of vessels from GasLog, would also be adversely affected by such a default event if it was to occur. We are also dependent on GasLog for the provision of administrative, commercial and ship management services. Additionally, any default by GasLog under its corporate guarantee would result in a default under the loan facility related to the Methane Alison Victoria, the Methane Shirley Elisabeth and the Methane Heather Sally. Our future performance and ability to secure future time charters depends on continued growth in LNG production and demand for LNG and LNG shipping. Our future performance, including our ability to profitably expand our fleet, will depend on continued growth in LNG production and the demand for LNG and LNG shipping. A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, storage, regasification and distribution facilities, in addition to the marine transportation of LNG. Increased infrastructure investment has led to an expansion of LNG production capacity in recent years, but material delays in the construction of new liquefaction facilities could constrain the amount of LNG available for shipping, reducing ship utilization. The rate of growth of the LNG industry has fluctuated due to several factors, including the global economic crisis and continued economic uncertainty, fluctuations in global commodity prices, including natural gas, oil and coal as well as other sources of energy. Continued growth in 11 LNG production and demand for LNG and LNG shipping could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: • continued low prices for crude oil and petroleum products; • increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms; • increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally; • increases in the production levels of low-cost natural gas in domestic natural gas consuming markets, which could further depress prices for natural gas in those markets and make LNG uneconomical; • increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price, decreases in the price of alternative energy sources or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive; • any significant explosion, spill or other incident involving an LNG facility or carrier; • infrastructure constraints such as delays in the construction of liquefaction facilities, the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities, as well as community or political action group resistance to new LNG infrastructure due to concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism; • labor or political unrest or military conflicts affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production or regasification; • decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; • new taxes or regulations affecting LNG production or liquefaction that make LNG production less attractive; or • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. In 2015, global crude oil prices were very volatile and fell significantly. Such decline in oil prices since 2014 has depressed natural gas prices and led to a narrowing of the gap in pricing in different geographic regions, which has adversely affected the length of voyages in the spot LNG shipping market and the spot rates and medium term charter rates for charters which commence in the near future. A continued decline in oil prices could adversely affect both the competitiveness of gas as a fuel for power generation and the market price of gas, to the extent that gas prices are benchmarked to the price of crude oil. Some production companies have announced delays or cancellations of certain previously announced LNG projects, which, unless offset by new projects coming on stream, could adversely affect demand for LNG charters over the next few years, while the amount of tonnage available for charter is expected to increase. All of our ships are currently operating under multi-year contracts, the first of which expires in 2018 unless the charterer exercises its extension option. Unless LNG charter market conditions improve, we may have difficulty in securing renewed or new charters at attractive rates and durations on our ships when such multi-year charters expire. Such a failure could adversely affect our future liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, as well as our ability to meet certain of our debt covenants. A sustained decline in charter rates could also adversely affect the market value of our ships, on which certain of the ratios and financial covenants we are required to comply with are based. See “—Risks Inherent in Our Business—Ship values may fluctuate substantially, which could result in an impairment charge, could impact our compliance 12 with the covenants in our loan agreements and, if the values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of ships, could cause us to incur a loss.” A continuation of the recent significant declines in natural gas and oil prices may adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. Natural gas prices are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the following: • price and availability of crude oil and petroleum products; • worldwide demand for natural gas; • the cost of exploration, development, production, transportation and distribution of natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices for both natural gas and other sources of energy; • the level of worldwide LNG production and exports; • government laws and regulations, including but not limited to environmental protection laws and regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • political and military conflicts; and • the availability and cost of alternative energy sources, including alternate sources of natural gas in gas importing and consuming countries. Natural gas prices have historically varied substantially between regions. This price disparity between producing and consuming regions supports demand for LNG shipping and any convergence of natural gas prices would adversely affect demand for LNG shipping. In 2015, global crude oil prices were very volatile and fell significantly. Such decline in oil prices since 2014 has depressed natural gas prices and led to a narrowing of the gap in pricing in different geographic regions. Given the significant global natural gas and crude oil price decline as referenced above, although our vessels are currently all under multi-year committed charters, a continuation of lower natural gas or oil prices or a further decline in natural gas or oil prices may adversely affect our future business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions, as a result of, among other things: • a reduction in exploration for or development of new natural gas reserves or projects, or the delay or cancelation of existing projects as energy companies lower their capital expenditures budgets, which may reduce our growth opportunities; • low oil prices negatively affecting both the competitiveness of natural gas as a fuel for power generation and the market price of natural gas, to the extent that natural gas prices are benchmarked to the price of crude oil; • lower demand for vessels of the types we own and operate, which may reduce available charter rates and revenue to us upon redeployment of our vessels following expiration or termination of existing contracts or upon the initial chartering of vessels; • customers potentially seeking to renegotiate or terminate existing vessel contracts, or failing to extend or renew contracts upon expiration; • the inability or refusal of customers to make charter payments to us due to financial constraints or otherwise; or • declines in vessel values, which may result in losses to us upon vessel sales or impairment charges against our earnings. We may have difficulty further expanding our fleet in the future. We may expand our fleet beyond the vessels we may acquire from GasLog. Our future growth will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to: 13 • obtain consents from lenders and charterers with respect to the vessels that we may acquire from GasLog; • identify attractive ship acquisition opportunities and consummate such acquisitions; • obtain newbuilding contracts at acceptable prices; • obtain required equity and debt financing on acceptable terms; • secure charter arrangements on terms acceptable to our lenders; • expand our relationships with existing customers and establish new customer relationships; • recruit and retain additional suitably qualified and experienced seafarers and shore-based employees through GasLog pursuant to the services agreements we have entered into with GasLog; • continue to meet technical and safety performance standards; • manage joint ventures; and • manage the expansion of our operations to integrate the new ships into our fleet. We may not be successful in executing any future growth plans, and we cannot give any assurances that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with such growth efforts. We may have difficulty obtaining consents that are necessary to acquire vessels with an existing charter or a financing agreement. Under the omnibus agreement entered into with GasLog in connection with the IPO, we have certain options and other rights to acquire vessels with existing charters from GasLog. The omnibus agreement provides that our ability to consummate the acquisition of any such vessels from GasLog will be subject to obtaining all relevant consents including governmental authorities and other non-affiliated third parties to those agreements. In particular, with respect to GasLog’s existing vessels, we would need the consent of the existing charterers and lenders. While GasLog will be obligated to use reasonable efforts to obtain any such consents, we cannot assure you that in any particular case the necessary consent will be obtained from the required parties including the governmental authorities and charterer, lender or other entity. Our future growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers, establish relationships with new customers and obtain new time charter contracts, for which we will face substantial competition from established companies with significant resources and potential new entrants. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate charters. The process of obtaining charters for LNG carriers is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening procedure and competitive bids, which often extends for several months. We believe LNG carrier time charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the ship and the ship operator, including: • size, age, technical specifications and condition of the ship; • efficiency of ship operation; • LNG shipping experience and quality of ship operations; • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service; • technical ability and reputation for operation of highly specialized ships; • quality and experience of officers and crew; • safety record; • the ability to finance ships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; 14 • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new ships according to customer specifications; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing marine transportation services for potential LNG projects from a number of experienced companies, including other independent ship owners as well as state-sponsored entities and major energy companies that own and operate LNG carriers and may compete with independent owners by using their fleets to carry LNG for third parties. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and larger fleets than we or GasLog have. A number of marine transportation companies—including companies with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience—have entered the LNG transportation market in recent years, and there are other ship owners and managers who may also attempt to participate in the LNG market in the future. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Hire rates for LNG carriers may fluctuate substantially and are currently below historical average rates. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our revenues and cash flows may decline. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any ship at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Hire rates for LNG carriers may fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future ship capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG charter market is connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in demand for natural gas or LNG could adversely affect our ability to charter or re-charter our ships at acceptable rates or to acquire and profitably operate new ships. Hire rates for newbuildings are correlated with the price of newbuildings. Hire rates at a time when we may be seeking new charters may be lower than the hire rates at which our ships are currently chartered. If hire rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, or at the time option extensions are due to be declared, our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, may decline, as we may only be able to enter into new charters at reduced or unprofitable rates or may not be able to re-charter our ship, or we may have to secure a charter in the spot market, where hire rates are more volatile. Prolonged periods of low charter hire rates or low ship utilization could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets. Ship values may fluctuate substantially, which could result in an impairment charge, could impact our compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements and, if the values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of ships, could cause us to incur a loss. Values for ships can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in the natural gas and energy markets; • a substantial or extended decline in demand for LNG; • the level of worldwide LNG production and exports; • changes in the supply-demand balance of the global LNG carrier fleet; • changes in prevailing charter hire rates; • the physical condition of the ship; • the size, age and technical specifications of the ship; • demand for LNG carriers; and 15 • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in ship design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise. If the market value of our ships declines, we may be required to record an impairment charge in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Recourses—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of Vessels”. Deterioration in market value of our ships may trigger a breach of some of the covenants contained in our credit facilities. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and seek to foreclose on the ships in our fleet securing those credit facilities. In addition, if a charter contract expires or is terminated by the customer, we may be unable to re-deploy the affected ships at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, we may seek to dispose of them. Any foreclosure on our ships, or any disposal by us of a ship at a time when ship prices have fallen, could result in a loss and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing for future acquisitions of ships or to refinance our existing debt may depend on the creditworthiness of our charterers and the terms of our future charters. Our ability to borrow against the ships in our existing fleet and any ships we may acquire in the future largely depends on the value of the ships, which in turn depends in part on charter hire rates and the ability of our charterers to comply with the terms of their charters. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional ships and to refinance our existing debt as balloon payments come due, or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing or committing to financing on unattractive terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distributions to our unitholders. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital to maintain, replace and expand the operating capacity of our fleet and fund our operations. Among other things, we hold options to acquire nine LNG carriers from GasLog. We do not currently have financing sources in place to fund the acquisition of any additional vessels. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the cost and timing of vessel acquisitions, and the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships as a result of technological advances in ship design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our unitholders may experience dilution or reduced distributions per unit. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt or pay distributions. Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our unitholders. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our fleet expansion plans. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distributions to our unitholders. 16 Fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates could result in financial losses for us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates may have a material impact on our financial performance. We receive virtually all of our revenues in dollars, while some of our operating expenses, including employee costs and certain crew costs, are denominated in euros. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk. Although we monitor exchange rate fluctuations on a continuous basis, we do not currently hedge movements in currency exchange rates. As a result, there is a risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to a market risk relating to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent our credit facilities bear interest costs at a floating rate based on a prevailing market interest rate. Significant increases in the interest rates could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and ability to service our debt. Although we use interest rate swaps from time to time to reduce our exposure to interest rate risk, we hedge only a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. There is no assurance that any derivative contracts we enter into in the future will provide adequate protection against adverse changes in interest rates or that our bank counterparties will be able to perform their obligations. The derivative contracts we may enter into in the future to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in reductions in our partners’ equity as well as charges against our profit. We enter into interest rate swaps from time to time for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, we had no interest rate swaps in place. We terminated three interest rate swaps on November 12, 2014 in connection with our entering into the $450 million credit facility, or our “Partnership Facility”, under the Facility Agreement dated November 12, 2014 among GAS-three Ltd., GAS-four Ltd., GAS-five Ltd., GAS-sixteen Ltd. and GAS-seventeen Ltd. as borrowers, and the financial institutions party thereto, and the related Deed between GasLog Partners and Citibank, N.A., London Branch, dated November 12, 2014. None of the terminated interest rate swaps were designated as a cash flow hedging instrument. The changes in the fair value of the terminated swaps were recognized in our statement of profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of any future derivative contracts that will not qualify for treatment as cash flow hedges for financial reporting purposes would affect, among other things, our profit and earnings per unit and would affect compliance with the market value adjusted net worth covenants in our credit facilities. For future interest rate swaps that are designated as cash flow hedging instruments, the changes in the fair value of the contracts will be recognized in our statement of other comprehensive income as cash flow hedge gains or losses for the period, and could affect compliance with the market value adjusted net worth covenants in our credit facilities. While we will monitor the credit risks associated with our bank counterparties, there can be no assurance that these counterparties will be able to meet their commitments under any derivative contract. The potential for bank counterparties to default on their obligations under any derivative contracts may be highest when we are most exposed to the fluctuations in interest rates such contracts are designed to hedge, and several or all of such bank counterparties may simultaneously be unable to perform their obligations due to the same events or occurrences in global financial markets. There is no assurance that our future derivative contracts will provide adequate protection against adverse changes in interest rates or that our bank counterparties will be able to perform their obligations. In addition, as a result of the implementation of new regulation of the swaps markets in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere over the next few years, the cost and availability of interest rate and currency hedges may increase or suitable hedges may not be available. 17 Our earnings and business are subject to the credit risk associated with our contractual counterparties. We will enter into, among other things, time charters and other contracts with our customers, shipbuilding contracts and refund guarantees relating to newbuildings, credit facilities and commitment letters with banks, insurance contracts and interest rate swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty credit risk. For example, all of our vessels are chartered to, and we received all of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 from, MSL, a subsidiary of BG Group. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the natural gas and LNG markets and charter hire rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying distributions to unitholders. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, ship acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and • if we are unable to satisfy the restrictions included in any of our financing agreements or are otherwise in default under any of those agreements, as a result of our debt levels or otherwise, we will not be able to make cash distributions to you, notwithstanding our stated cash distribution policy. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. As of December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of $748.0 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and the revolving credit facility with GasLog entered into upon consummation of the IPO, or the “Sponsor Credit Facility”, of which $328.0 million is repayable within one year. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”. The amount repayable within one year includes $305.50 million which is the current portion of one credit facility that we are in discussions to refinance with one or more term loans. We have entered into an underwritten agreement with certain financial institutions to refinance our current debt. Syndication is complete and we are proceeding with documentation. We expect to execute definitive documentation well in advance of the maturity of all associated existing indebtedness. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. 18 Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our financing agreements would result in an event of default under such credit facilities which could lead to foreclosure on our ships. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, the financing agreements may restrict the ability of us and our subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • make dividends or distributions; • make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. In addition, such financing agreements may require us to comply with certain financial ratios and tests, including, among others, maintaining a minimum liquidity, maintaining positive working capital, ensuring that EBITDA exceeds interest payable, any amounts payable for interest rate swap and debt installments calculated on a four quarter rolling average basis, maintaining a minimum collateral value, and maintaining a minimum book equity ratio. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants, including financial ratios and tests, contained in such financing agreements is dependent on future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend and/or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. We have pledged our vessels as security for our outstanding indebtedness. If our lenders were to foreclose on our vessels in the event of a default, this may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. If any of these events occur, we cannot guarantee that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. Any of these events would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and cause a decline in the market price of our common units. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities”. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us or our subsidiaries from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on our debt reduces cash available for distribution to us and on our units. In addition, our credit facilities prohibit the payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to vessels securing the facilities; • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness; 19 • bankruptcy or insolvency events; • failure of any representation or warranty to be correct; • a change of ownership of the borrowers or GasLog Partners Holdings; and • a material adverse effect. Furthermore, we expect that our future financing agreements will contain similar provisions. For more information regarding these financing agreements, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities”. We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make distributions to unitholders. We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets, including our ships. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to pay our obligations and to make distributions to unitholders depends entirely on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of distributions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to make distributions to unitholders. The failure to consummate or integrate acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that expand our fleet are an important component of our strategy. Under the omnibus agreement, we currently have the option to purchase from GasLog: (i) the Solaris and Hull Nos. 2072, 2073, 2102 and 2103 within 36 months after GasLog notifies our board of directors of their acceptance by their charterers, (ii) the GasLog Seattle and the Methane Lydon Volney within 36 months after the closing of our IPO on May 12, 2014 and (iii) the Methane Becki Anne and the Methane Julia Louise within 36 months after the completion of their acquisition by GasLog on March 31, 2015. In each case, our option to purchase is at fair market value as determined pursuant to the omnibus agreement. In addition, on April 21, 2015, GasLog signed an agreement with MSL for its newbuildings Hull Nos. 2130, 2800 and 2131 to be chartered to MSL upon deliveries in 2018 and 2019 respectively, for average initial terms of approximately 9.5 years. Within 30 days of the commencement of each charter, GasLog will be required to offer us an opportunity to purchase each vessel at fair market value as determined pursuant to the omnibus agreement. We will not be obligated to purchase any of these vessels at the applicable determined price, and, accordingly, we may not complete the purchase of any of such vessels. Furthermore, even if we are able to agree on a price with GasLog, there are no assurances that we will be able to obtain adequate financing on terms that are acceptable to us. In light of recent instability in the market price of our common units and broader master limited partnership (“MLP”) market volatility, it may be more difficult for us to complete an accretive acquisition. We believe that other acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to attract, hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; 20 • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. In addition, unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common units. Our future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired vessels or businesses or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring vessels or businesses, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any acquired vessels or businesses and the risk of diverting management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. We may also be subject to additional costs related to compliance with various international laws in connection with such acquisition. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We may experience operational problems with vessels that reduce revenue and increase costs. LNG carriers are complex and their operations are technically challenging. Marine transportation operations are subject to mechanical risks and problems. Operational problems may lead to loss of revenue or higher than anticipated operating expenses or require additional capital expenditures. Any of these results could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We depend on GasLog and certain of its subsidiaries to assist us in operating and expanding our businesses and competing in our markets. We and our operating subsidiaries have entered into various service agreements with GasLog and its subsidiaries, including GasLog LNG Services, pursuant to which GasLog and its subsidiaries will provide to us certain administrative, financial and other services, and provide to our operating subsidiaries substantially all of their crew, technical management services (including vessel maintenance, periodic drydocking, cleaning and painting, performing work required by regulations and human resources and financial services) and other advisory and commercial management services, including the sourcing of new contracts and renewals of existing contracts. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by GasLog and its subsidiaries. Our business will be harmed if such subsidiaries fail to perform these services satisfactorily or if they stop providing these services to us or our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to compete for new charters and expand our customer relationships depends largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with GasLog and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If GasLog suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm the ability of us or our subsidiaries to: 21 • renew existing charters upon their expiration; • obtain new charters; • successfully interact with shipyards; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; • maintain access to capital under the Sponsor Credit Facility; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The required drydocking of our ships could be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Drydockings of our ships require significant capital expenditures and result in loss of revenue while our ships are off-hire. Any significant increase in either the number of off-hire days due to such drydockings or in the costs of any repairs carried out during the drydockings could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our cash flows. We may not be able to accurately predict the time required to drydock any of our ships or any unanticipated problems that may arise. If more than one of our ships is required to be out of service at the same time, or if a ship is drydocked longer than expected or if the cost of repairs during the drydocking is greater than budgeted, our results of operations and our cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, could be adversely affected. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the drydockings of the Methane Alison Victoria, the Methane Shirley Elisabeth and the Methane Heather Sally were completed. The drydockings of the remainder of our vessels are expected to be carried out in 2016 (2 vessels) and 2018 (3 vessels), respectively. Delays in deliveries of GasLog’s newbuilding vessels could adversely affect our business. We may expand our fleet by acquiring newly built vessels from GasLog pursuant to the omnibus agreement. The delivery of any newbuildings could be delayed, which would adversely affect our future growth, which is expected to be partly based on the acquisition of vessels from GasLog. The completion and delivery of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; • weather interference or a catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • the inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; or • the inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. 22 An oversupply of LNG carriers may lead to a reduction in the charter hire rates we are able to obtain when seeking charters in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Driven in part by an increase in LNG production capacity, the market supply of LNG carriers has been increasing as a result of the construction of new ships. The development of liquefaction projects in the United States and the anticipated exports beginning in early 2016 has driven significant ordering activity. As of December 31, 2015, the LNG carrier order book totaled 145 vessels, and the delivered fleet stood at 427 vessels. We believe that this and any future expansion of the global LNG carrier fleet may have a negative impact on charter hire rates, ship utilization and ship values, which impact could be amplified if the expansion of LNG production capacity does not keep pace with fleet growth. If charter hire rates are lower when we are seeking new time charters, our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, may decline. If an active short-term or spot LNG carrier charter market continues to develop, our revenues and cash flows may become more volatile and may decline following expiration or early termination of our current charter arrangements. Most shipping requirements for new LNG projects continue to be provided on a multi-year basis, though the level of spot voyages and short-term time charters of less than 12 months in duration has grown in the past few years. If an active short-term or spot charter market continues to develop, we may enter into short-term time charters upon expiration or early termination of our current charters, for any ships for which we have not secured charters, or for any ships we acquire from GasLog. As a result, our revenues and cash flows may become more volatile. In addition, an active short-term or spot charter market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on fixed rates, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders, if we enter into charters during periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed. Further technological advancements and other innovations affecting LNG carriers could reduce the charter hire rates we are able to obtain when seeking new employment, and this could adversely impact the value of our assets. The charter rates, asset value and operational life of an LNG carrier are determined by a number of factors, including the ship’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed and fuel economy. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, the ongoing maintenance and the impact of operational stresses on the asset. Ship and engine designs are continually evolving. At such time as newer designs are developed and accepted in the market, these newer vessels may be found to be more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than ours. Competition from these more technologically advanced LNG carriers and the older technology of our steam-powered (“Steam”) vessels (whose charters expire in 2019 and 2020 unless the charterer exercises its extension option), as well as any vessels with older technology which we acquire, could adversely affect our ability to charter or re-charter our ships and the charter hire rates we will be able to secure when we seek to charter or re-charter our ships, and could also reduce the resale value of our ships. This could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Risks associated with operating ocean-going ships could affect our business and reputation. The operation of ocean-going ships carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; 23 • adverse weather conditions; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • cargo and property loss or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, disease and quarantine, or political action in various countries; and • work stoppages or other labor problems with crew members serving on our ships. An accident involving any of our owned ships could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from termination of charter contracts; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • litigation with our employees, customers or third parties; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Changes in global and regional economic conditions could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Weak global or regional economic conditions may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in ways that we cannot predict. Our ability to expand our fleet will be dependent on our ability to obtain financing to fund the acquisition of additional ships. In addition, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause our customers to defer projects in response to tighter credit, decreased capital availability and declining customer confidence, which may negatively impact the demand for our ships and services and could also result in defaults under our current charters. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been volatile in recent years and remain subject to significant vulnerabilities. In particular, despite recent measures taken by the European Union, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries, including Greece, and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. Furthermore, a tightening of the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our suppliers or customers, which could lead to disruptions in delivery of supplies such as equipment for conversions, cost increases for supplies, accelerated payments to suppliers, customer bad debts or reduced revenues. Similarly, such market conditions could affect lenders participating in our financing agreements, making them unable to fulfill their commitments and obligations to us. Any reductions in activity owing to such conditions or failure by our customers, suppliers or lenders to meet their contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. GasLog LNG Services, our vessels’ management company, and a substantial number of its staff are located in Greece. The current economic instability in Greece could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. We have sought to minimize this risk and preserve operational stability by carefully developing staff deployment plans, an information technology recovery site, an alternative ship to shore communications plan and funding mechanisms. While we believe these plans, combined with the international nature of our operations, will mitigate the impact of any disruption of operations in Greece, we cannot assure you that these plans will be effective in all circumstances. 24 Disruptions in world financial markets could limit our ability to obtain future debt financing or refinance existing debt. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile in recent years. Credit markets as well as the debt and equity capital markets were exceedingly distressed and at certain times in recent years it was difficult to obtain financing and the cost of any available financing increased significantly. If global financial markets and economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the future, we may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments, including commitments to refinance our existing debt as substantial balloon payments come due under our credit facilities, in the future if lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. As a result, financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our future obligations as they come due. Our failure to obtain the funds for these capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of further business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Compliance with safety and other requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial LNG carrier must be classed by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the ship has been built and subsequently maintained in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of that classification society. Moreover, every ship must comply with all applicable international conventions and the regulations of the ship’s flag state as verified by a classification society. Finally, each ship must successfully undergo periodic surveys, including annual, intermediate and special surveys performed under the classification society’s rules. If any ship does not maintain its class, it will lose its insurance coverage and be unable to trade, and the ship’s owner will be in breach of relevant covenants under its financing arrangements. Failure to maintain the class of one or more of our ships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. The LNG shipping industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit our operations or increase our expenses. Our operations are materially affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local environmental laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards which are in force in international waters, or in the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our ships operate and in the countries in which our ships are registered. These requirements include those relating to equipping and operating ships, providing security and minimizing or addressing impacts on the environment from ship operations. We may incur substantial costs in complying with these requirements, including costs for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. We also could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, the suspension or termination of operations and third-party claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, such laws and regulations. In addition, these requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our ships, require a reduction in cargo capacity, necessitate ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions or lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters. They could further result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports or detention in certain ports. We are required to obtain governmental approvals and permits to operate our ships. Delays in obtaining such governmental approvals may increase our expenses, and the terms and conditions of such approvals could materially and adversely affect our operations. 25 Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase our operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, new or amended legislation relating to ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emissions of greenhouse gases) as well as ballast water treatment and ballast water handling may be adopted. The United States has recently enacted ballast water management system legislation and regulations that require more stringent controls of air and water emissions from ocean-going ships. Such legislation or regulations may require additional capital expenditures or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain our ships’ compliance with international and/or national regulations. We also may become subject to additional laws and regulations if we enter new markets or trades. We also believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements, as well as greater inspection and safety requirements on all LNG carriers in the marine transportation market. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our operations, and the failure to comply with these requirements may affect the ability of our ships to obtain and, possibly, recover from, insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where we operate. Some environmental laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or “OPA”, provide for potentially unlimited joint, several and/or strict liability for owners, operators and demise or bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages. OPA applies to discharges of any oil from a ship in U.S. waters, including discharges of fuel and lubricants from an LNG carrier, even if the ships do not carry oil as cargo. In addition, many states in the United States bordering a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited strict liability without regard to fault for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. We also are subject to other laws and conventions outside the United States that provide for an owner or operator of LNG carriers to bear strict liability for pollution, such as the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, or the “London Convention”. Some of these laws and conventions, including OPA and the London Convention, may include limitations on liability. However, the limitations may not be applicable in certain circumstances, such as where a spill is caused by a ship owner’s or operator’s intentional or reckless conduct. These limitations are also subject to periodic updates and may otherwise be amended in the future. Compliance with OPA and other environmental laws and regulations also may result in ship owners and operators incurring increased costs for additional maintenance and inspection requirements, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills, obtaining mandated insurance coverage and meeting financial responsibility requirements. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risks of climate change, a number of countries and the International Maritime Organization, or “IMO”, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from ships. These regulatory measures may include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Although emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or the “Kyoto Protocol”, or any amendments or successor agreements, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes additional restrictions on shipping emissions to those already adopted under the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution from Ships, or the “MARPOL Convention”. Compliance with future changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase the costs of operating and maintaining our ships and could require us to install new emission controls, as well as acquire allowances, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an effect on 26 demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and natural gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have significant financial and operational adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We operate our ships worldwide, which could expose us to political, governmental and economic instability that could harm our business. Because we operate our ships in the geographic areas where our customers do business, our operations may be affected by political, governmental and economic conditions in the countries where our ships operate or where they are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. In particular, our ships frequent LNG terminals in countries including Egypt, Equatorial Guinea and Trinidad, as well as transit through the Gulf of Aden and the Strait of Malacca. Economic, political and governmental conditions in these and other regions have from time to time resulted in military conflicts, terrorism, attacks on ships, mining of waterways, piracy and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Future hostilities or other political instability in the geographic regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, our business could also be harmed by tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or diplomatic or political pressures that limit trading activities with those countries. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The operation of any ship includes risks such as mechanical failure, personal injury, collision, fire, contact with floating objects, property loss or damage, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to a number of reasons, including political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of a marine disaster, including explosion, spills and other environmental mishaps, and other liabilities arising from owning, operating or managing ships in international trade. Although we carry protection and indemnity, hull and machinery and loss of hire insurance covering our ships consistent with industry standards, we can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. We also may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a timely replacement ship in the event of a loss of a ship. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, some of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. Terrorist attacks, international hostilities and piracy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. The continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional acts of terrorism, further regional conflicts, other armed actions around the world and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute to further instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 27 In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected ships trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden. Since 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. Any terrorist attacks targeted at ships may in the future negatively materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could directly impact our ships or our customers. We currently employ armed guards onboard certain vessels operating in areas that may be prone to hijacking or terrorist attacks. The presence of armed guards may increase the risk of damage, injury or loss of life in connection with any attacks on our vessels, in addition to increasing crew costs. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from acts of terrorism, piracy, regional conflicts and other armed actions, including losses relating to the employment of armed guards. LNG facilities, shipyards, ships, pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, as well as damage to the ships or other property, increased ship operating costs, including insurance costs, reductions in the supply of LNG and the inability to transport LNG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage or transportation of LNG to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts in certain circumstances, which would harm our cash flows and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG facilities and LNG carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed significantly to local community and environmental group resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility or LNG carrier did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect the construction of additional LNG facilities and could lead to the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities currently in operation. A cyber-attack could materially disrupt the Partnership’s business. The Partnership relies on information technology systems and networks, the majority of which are provided by GasLog, in its operations and administration of its business. The Partnership’s business operations, or those of GasLog, could be targeted by individuals or groups seeking to sabotage or disrupt the Partnership’s or GasLog’s information technology systems and networks, or to steal data. A successful cyber-attack could materially disrupt the Partnership’s operations, including the safety of its operations, or lead to unauthorized release of information or alteration of information on its systems. Any such attack or other breach of the Partnership’s information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s business and results of operations. GasLog may on our behalf be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business or may pay substantially increased costs for its employees and crew. Our success will depend in large part on GasLog’s ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract, hire, train and retain qualified crew members is intense, and crew manning costs continue to increase. If we are not able to increase our hire rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to attract, hire, train and retain a 28 sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. In the future, the ships we own could be required to call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States and other governments. The United States and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries and maintain lists of countries they consider to be state sponsors of terrorism. For example, in 2010, the United States enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or “CISADA”, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expanded the application of the prohibitions imposed by the U.S. government to non-U.S. companies, such as us, and limits the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products, as well as LNG. In 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608, which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of, any sanctions in effect against Iran, or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. The Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit any transactions or dealings, including any U.S. capital markets financing, involving any person found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608. Also in 2012, the U.S. enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the “ITRA”, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the ITRA intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector. The ITRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of such person’s vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. The ITRA also includes a requirement that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 whether the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. Finally, in January 2013, the U.S. enacted the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 or the “IFCA”, which expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions on any person that is part of Iran’s energy, shipping or shipbuilding sector and operators of ports in Iran, and imposes penalties on any person who facilitates or otherwise knowingly provides significant financial, material or other support to these entities. On January 16, 2016, the United States suspended certain sanctions against Iran applicable to non-U.S. companies, such as us, pursuant to the nuclear agreement reached between Iran, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union. To implement these changes, beginning on January 16, 2016, the United States waived enforcement of many of the sanctions against Iran’s energy and petrochemical sectors described above, among other things, including certain provisions of CISADA, ITRA, and IFCA. While non-U.S. companies may now engage in certain business or trade with Iran that was previously prohibited, the U.S. has the ability to reimpose sanctions against Iran if, in the future, Iran does not comply with its obligations under the nuclear agreement. Although the ships we own have not called on ports in countries subject to sanctions or embargoes or in countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, North Korea and Syria, we cannot assure you that these ships will not call on ports in these countries in the future. While we intend to maintain compliance with all sanctions and embargoes applicable to us, U.S. and international sanctions and embargo laws and regulations do not necessarily apply to the same 29 countries or proscribe the same activities, which may make compliance difficult. Additionally, the scope of certain laws may be unclear, and these laws may be subject to changing interpretations and application and may be amended or strengthened from time to time, including by adding or removing countries from the proscribed lists. Violations of sanctions and embargo laws and regulations could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their investment, or not to invest, in us. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-bribery legislation in other jurisdictions could result in fines, criminal penalties, contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We operate our ships worldwide, requiring our ships to trade in countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the “FCPA”, and the Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom or the “UK Bribery Act”. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, or curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Reliability of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services when needed. We rely, and will in the future rely, on a significant supply of consumables, spare parts and equipment to operate, maintain, repair and upgrade our fleet of ships. Delays in delivery or unavailability of supplies could result in off-hire days due to consequent delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. This would negatively impact our revenues and cash flows. Cost increases could also negatively impact our future operations, although the impact of significant cost increases may be mitigated to some extent with respect to the vessels that are employed under charter contracts with automatic periodic adjustment provisions or cost review provisions. Governments could requisition our ships during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. The government of a jurisdiction where one or more of our ships are registered could requisition for title or seize our ships. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a ship and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our ships for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a ship and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition ships in other circumstances. Although we would expect to be entitled to government compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our ships, the amount and timing of payments, if any, would be uncertain. A government requisition of one or more of our ships would result in off-hire days under our time charters and may cause us to breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Maritime claimants could arrest our ships, which could interrupt our cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a ship, shippers or receivers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a ship for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a ship. The 30 arrest or attachment of one or more of our ships which is not timely discharged could cause us to default on a charter or breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities and, to the extent such arrest or attachment is not covered by our protection and indemnity insurance, could require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for distribution to unitholders. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, such as the Republic of South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the ship that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” ship, which is any ship owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one ship in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. We may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We may in the future be involved from time to time in litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, toxic tort claims, employment matters and governmental claims for taxes or duties, as well as other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any claim or other litigation matter. The ultimate outcome of any litigation matter and the potential costs associated with prosecuting or defending such lawsuits, including the diversion of management’s attention to these matters, could have an adverse effect on us and, in the event of litigation that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us, could lead to an event of default under certain of our credit facilities. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us GasLog and its affiliates may compete with us. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement between us and GasLog, GasLog and its controlled affiliates (other than us, our general partner and our subsidiaries) generally have agreed not to acquire, own, operate or charter certain LNG carriers operating under charters of five full years or more. The omnibus agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow GasLog or any of its controlled affiliates to compete with us, which could harm our business. For example, these exceptions result in GasLog not being restricted from: acquiring, owning, operating or chartering Non-Five-Year Vessels; acquiring a non-controlling equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in any company, business or pool of assets; acquiring, owning, operating or chartering a Five-Year Vessel that GasLog would otherwise be restricted from owning if we are not willing or able to acquire such vessel from GasLog within the periods set forth in the omnibus agreement; or owning or operating any Five-Year Vessel that GasLog owns on the closing date of the IPO and that was not part of our fleet as of such date. See “Item 7. Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Omnibus Agreement—Noncompetition” for a detailed description of those exceptions and the definitions of “Five-Year Vessel” and “Non-Five-Year Vessel”. Unitholders have limited voting rights, and our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning more than 4.9% of our common units. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. We will hold a meeting of the limited partners every year to elect one or more members of our board of directors and to vote on any other matters that are properly brought before the meeting. Our general partner has appointed four of our seven directors and the common unitholders elected the remaining three directors at our 2015 annual meeting. Five of our directors meet the independence standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or the “NYSE”, and three of the five also qualify as independent of GasLog under our partnership agreement, so as to be eligible for membership on our conflicts committee. If our general partner exercises its right to transfer the power to elect a majority of our directors to the 31 common unitholders, an additional director will thereafter be elected by our common unitholders. Our general partner may exercise this right in order to permit us to claim, or continue to claim, an exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code”. See “Item 4. Information on the Partnership—B. Business Overview—Taxation of the Partnership”. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner, and our general partner may not be removed except by a vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of the outstanding common and subordinated units, including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. Our partnership agreement further restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 4.9% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 4.9% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board of directors), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. Effectively, this means that the voting rights of any unitholders not entitled to vote on a specific matter will be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders. Our general partner, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors will not be subject to the 4.9% limitation, except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors. GasLog and our general partner own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary and contractual duties to us and our common unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment. GasLog currently owns limited partnership units representing a 30.9% partnership interest and a 2.0% general partner interest in us, and owns and controls our general partner. In addition, our general partner has the right to appoint four of seven, or a majority, of our directors. Certain of our directors and officers are directors and officers of GasLog or its affiliates, and, as such, they have fiduciary duties to GasLog or its affiliates that may cause them to pursue business strategies that disproportionately benefit GasLog or its affiliates or which otherwise are not in the best interests of us or our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between GasLog and its affiliates (including our general partner), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner and its affiliates may favor their own interests over the interests of our unitholders. See “—Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s and our directors’ fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner or our directors”. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our general partner or GasLog or its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and GasLog’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of GasLog, which may be contrary to our interests; • our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Specifically, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or refrains from transferring its units or general partner interest or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership; 32 • under our partnership agreement, as permitted under Marshall Islands law, our general partner and our directors have limited fiduciary duties. The partnership agreement also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders; as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner and our directors, all as set forth in the partnership agreement; • our general partner is entitled to reimbursement of all reasonable costs incurred by it and its affiliates for our benefit; • our partnership agreement does not restrict us from paying our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase our common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units; and • our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of its limited call right. Even if our general partner relinquishes the power to elect one director to the common unitholders, so that they will elect a majority of our directors, our general partner will have substantial influence on decisions made by our board of directors. See “Item 7. Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions”. Our officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our officers are all employed by GasLog or its applicable affiliate and are performing executive officer functions for us pursuant to the administrative services agreement. Our officers, with the exception of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Andrew J. Orekar, are not required to work full-time on our affairs and also perform services for affiliates of our general partner (including GasLog). As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of our officers who also provide services to our general partner’s affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees”. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s and our directors’ fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner or our directors. Under the partnership agreement, our general partner has delegated to our board of directors the authority to oversee and direct our operations, management and policies on an exclusive basis, and such delegation will be binding on any successor general partner of the partnership. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner and directors would otherwise be held by Marshall Islands law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Where our partnership agreement permits, our general partner may consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and in such cases it has no fiduciary duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its sole owner, GasLog. Specifically, pursuant to our partnership agreement, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or 33 refrains from transferring its units or general partner interest or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership; • provides that our general partner and our directors are entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if they reasonably believe that the decision is in our best interests; • generally provides that transactions with our affiliates and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable”, our board of directors may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that neither our general partner nor our officers or directors will be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions, unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or our officers or directors or those other persons engaged in actual fraud or willful misconduct. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Fees and cost reimbursements, which GasLog or its applicable affiliate will determine for services provided to us and our subsidiaries, will be substantial, will likely be higher for future periods than reflected in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015, will be payable regardless of our profitability and will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Pursuant to the ship management agreements, our subsidiaries pay fees for services provided to them by GasLog LNG Services, and reimburses GasLog LNG Services for all expenses incurred on their behalf. These fees and expenses include all costs and expenses incurred in providing the crew and technical management of the vessels in our fleet to our subsidiaries. In addition, our operating subsidiaries pay GasLog LNG Services a fixed management fee for costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing these services to our operating subsidiaries. Pursuant to an administrative services agreement, GasLog provides us with certain administrative services. We pay a fixed fee to GasLog for its reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the provision of the services under the administrative services agreement. Pursuant to the commercial management agreements, GasLog provides us with commercial management services. We pay to GasLog a fixed commercial management fee in U.S. dollars for costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing services. For a description of the ship management agreements, commercial management agreements and the administrative services agreement, see “Item 7. Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions”. The aggregate fees and expenses payable for services under the ship management agreements, commercial management agreements and administrative services agreement for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $3.59 million, $ 2.34 million and $3.82 million, respectively. As these amounts represent fees and expenses relating to the five vessels acquired from GasLog in 2014, and the Methane Alison Victoria, the Methane Shirley Elisabeth and the Methane Heather Sally since their acquisition from GasLog in July 2015, the fees and expenses payable pursuant to these agreements will likely be higher for future periods than reflected in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015. Additionally, these fees and expenses will be payable without regard to our business, results of operation and financial condition. The payment of fees to and the reimbursement of expenses of GasLog or its applicable affiliate, including GasLog LNG Services, could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. 34 Our partnership agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or our general partner, and even if public unitholders are dissatisfied, they are unable to remove our general partner without GasLog’s consent, unless GasLog’s ownership interest in us is decreased, all of which could diminish the trading price of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or our general partner. • The unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and GasLog own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner; GasLog owns 31.55% of the outstanding common and subordinated units. • If our general partner is removed without “cause” during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and GasLog are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units, any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished, and our general partner will have the right to convert its general partner interest and the holders of the incentive distribution rights will have the right to convert such incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests based on the fair market value of those interests at the time. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Any conversion of the general partner interest or incentive distribution rights would be dilutive to existing unitholders. Furthermore, any cash payment in lieu of such conversion could be prohibitively expensive. “Cause” is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor business decisions, such as charges of poor management of our business by the directors appointed by our general partner. Therefore, the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s decisions in this regard would most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. • Common unitholders are entitled to elect only three of the seven members of our board of directors. Our general partner, by virtue of its general partner interest, in its sole discretion appoints the remaining directors (subject to its right to transfer the power to elect a majority of our directors to the common unitholders). • The election of the directors by common unitholders is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our elected directors will be selected each year. In addition, the directors appointed by our general partner will serve for terms determined by our general partner. • Our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders, to nominate directors and to acquire information about our operations as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. • Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 4.9% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 4.9% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board of directors), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. Effectively, this means that the voting rights of any such unitholders in excess of 4.9% will be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders holding less than 4.9% of the voting power of all classes of units entitled to vote. 35 Our general partner, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors will not be subject to this 4.9% limitation, except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors. • There are no restrictions in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities. The effect of these provisions may be to diminish the price at which the common units will trade. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. In addition, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. Substantial future sales of our common units in the public market could cause the price of our common units to fall. We have granted registration rights to GasLog and certain of its affiliates. These unitholders have the right, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering any of our common, subordinated or other equity securities owned by them or to include those securities in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other unitholders. As of February 11, 2016, GasLog owns 162,358 common units and 9,822,358 subordinated units and all of the incentive distribution rights. Following their registration and sale under the applicable registration statement, those securities will become freely tradable. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common units or other securities, these unitholders could cause the price of our common units to decline. GasLog, as the holder of all of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue additional common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors or holders of our common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. GasLog, as the holder of all of the incentive distribution rights, has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by GasLog, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on the same percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, GasLog will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to it on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that GasLog would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that GasLog could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued additional common units to GasLog in connection with resetting the target 36 distribution levels related to GasLog’s incentive distribution rights. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Our Cash Distribution Policy—Incentive Distribution Rights”. We may issue additional equity securities, including securities senior to the common units, without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. We may, without the approval of our unitholders, issue an unlimited number of additional units or other equity securities. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. During the subordination period, the common units will have the right to receive distributions of available cash from operating surplus in an amount equal to the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.375 per unit, plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution on the common units from prior quarters, before any distributions of available cash from operating surplus may be made on the subordinated units. Distribution arrearages do not accrue on the subordinated units. The purpose of the subordinated units is to increase the likelihood that during the subordination period there will be available cash from operating surplus to be distributed on the common units. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Our Cash Distribution Policy—Subordination Period”. In establishing cash reserves, our board of directors may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement requires our board of directors to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders and they are not subject to any specified maximum dollar amount. Our board of directors may establish reserves for distributions on the subordinated units, but only if those reserves will not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. As described above in “—Risks Inherent in Our Business—We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and replace the operating capacity of our fleet, which will reduce cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted”, our partnership agreement requires our board of directors each quarter to deduct from operating surplus estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, as opposed to actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, which could reduce the amount of available cash for distribution. The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our board of directors at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors. 37 Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price of our common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of this limited call right. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. GasLog, which owns and controls our general partner, owns 0.74% of our common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units and the conversion of our subordinated units into common units, GasLog will own 31.55% of our common units. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if you participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions in which we do business. We can borrow money to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of credit available to operate our business. Our partnership agreement allows us to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions. Accordingly, if we have available borrowing capacity, we can make distributions on all our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings we can make for operating our business. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities”. The price of our common units may be volatile. The price of our common units may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors including: • our payment of cash distributions to our unitholders; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • fluctuations in the seaborne transportation industry, including fluctuations in the LNG carrier market; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organizations standards; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us, or analysts making changes in their financial estimates; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our units or other securities; 38 • investors’ perceptions of us and the LNG shipping industry; • the general state of the securities markets; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. Securities markets worldwide are experiencing significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common units may also be volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common units despite our operating performance. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under the Marshall Islands Limited Partnership Act, or the “Marshall Islands Act”, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Marshall Islands law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Marshall Islands law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the assignee at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common units less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies”. We have elected to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act and such election is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our common units less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common units less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our unit price may be more volatile. In addition, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for so long as we are an emerging growth company. For as long as we take advantage of the reduced reporting obligations, the information that we provide unitholders may be different than information provided by other public companies. We have been organized as a limited partnership under the laws of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of partnership law. We are a partnership formed in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of case law or bankruptcy law and, as a result, unitholders have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. As 39 such, in the case of a bankruptcy of the Partnership, there may be a delay of bankruptcy proceedings and the ability of unitholders and creditors to receive recovery after a bankruptcy proceeding. Our partnership affairs are governed by our partnership agreement and by the Marshall Islands Act. The provisions of the Marshall Islands Act resemble provisions of the limited partnership laws of a number of states in the United States, most notably Delaware. The Marshall Islands Act also provides that it is to be applied and construed to make it uniform with the Delaware Revised Uniform Partnership Act and, so long as it does not conflict with the Marshall Islands Act or decisions of the Marshall Islands courts, interpreted according to the non-statutory law (or case law) of the State of Delaware. There have been, however, few, if any, court cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the Marshall Islands Act, in contrast to Delaware, which has a well-developed body of case law interpreting its limited partnership statute. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as the courts in Delaware. For example, the rights of our unitholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our general partner under Marshall Islands law are not as clearly established as under judicial precedent in existence in Delaware. As a result, unitholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our general partner and its officers and directors than would unitholders of a similarly organized limited partnership in the United States. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, our general partner is a Marshall Islands limited liability company, our directors and officers generally are or will be non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our general partner or our directors or officers. Our partnership agreement designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum, unless otherwise provided for by Marshall Islands law, for certain litigation that may be initiated by our unitholders, which could limit our unitholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that, unless otherwise provided for by Marshall Islands law, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any claims that: • arise out of or relate in any way to the partnership agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of the partnership agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among limited partners or of limited partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, the limited partners or us); • are brought in a derivative manner on our behalf; • assert a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of us or our general partner, or owed by our general partner, to us or the limited partners; • assert a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Marshall Islands Act; or • assert a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine regardless of whether such claims, suits, actions or proceedings sound in contract, tort, fraud or otherwise, are based on common law, statutory, equitable, legal or other grounds, or are derivative or direct claims. Any person or entity otherwise acquiring any interest in our common units shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit our unitholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or unitholders. 40 Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common units. We may be subject to taxes, which may reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we are organized or operate, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries, further reducing the cash available for distribution. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in additional tax being imposed on us or our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. See “Item 4. Information on the Partnership—B. Business Overview—Taxation of the Partnership”. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company” under certain circumstances, which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, or “PFIC”, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0% of its gross income for any tax year consists of “passive income” or at least 50.0% of the average value of its assets produce, or are held for the production of, “passive income”. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income”. U.S. unitholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. Based on our current and projected method of operation, and an opinion of our U.S. counsel, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, we believe that we will not be a PFIC for our current tax year, and we expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for any future tax year. We have received an opinion of our U.S. counsel in support of this position that concludes that the income our subsidiaries earn from certain of our present time-chartering activities should not constitute passive income for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. In addition, we have represented to our U.S. counsel that we expect that more than 25.0% of our gross income for our current tax year and each future year will arise from such time-chartering activities or other income our U.S. counsel has opined does not constitute passive income, and more than 50.0% of the average value of our assets for each such year will be held for the production of such nonpassive income. Assuming the composition of our income and assets is consistent with these expectations, and assuming the accuracy of other representations we have made to our U.S. counsel for purposes of their opinion, our U.S. counsel is of the opinion that we should not be a PFIC for our current tax year or any future year. This opinion is based and its accuracy is conditioned on representations, valuations and projections provided by us regarding our assets, income and charters to our U.S. counsel. While we believe these representations, valuations and projections to be accurate, the shipping market is volatile and no assurance can be given that they will continue to be accurate at any time in the future. Moreover, there are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services. In Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), the United States Court of 41 Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, or the “Fifth Circuit”, held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a provision of the Code relating to foreign sales corporations. In that case, the Fifth Circuit did not address the definition of passive income or the PFIC rules; however, the reasoning of the case could have implications as to how the income from a time charter would be classified under such rules. If the reasoning of this case were extended to the PFIC context, the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time-chartering activities may be treated as rental income, and we would likely be treated as a PFIC. In published guidance, the Internal Revenue Service, or “IRS”, stated that it disagreed with the holding in Tidewater, and specified that time charters similar to those at issue in the case should be treated as service contracts. We have not sought, and we do not expect to seek, an IRS ruling on the treatment of income generated from our time-chartering activities, and the opinion of our counsel is not binding on the IRS or any court. As a result, the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. No assurance can be given that this result will not occur. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to any tax year, we cannot assure you that the nature of our operations will not change in the future, or that we will not be a PFIC in the future. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any tax year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for any subsequent tax year), our U.S. unitholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on U.S.-source income, which will reduce our cash flow. Under the Code, the U.S. source gross transportation income of a ship-owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves, is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under a tax treaty or Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. U.S. source gross transportation income consists of 50% of the gross shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. We do not expect to qualify for the exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 during the 2016 tax year, unless our general partner exercises the “GasLog option” described below. Even if we do not qualify, we do not currently expect any resulting U.S. federal income tax liability to be material or materially reduce the earnings available for distribution to our unitholders. For 2015, the accrued U.S. source gross transportation tax was $0.01 million. For a more detailed discussion, see the section entitled “Item 4. Information on the Partnership—B. Business Overview—Taxation of the Partnership—United States”. You may be subject to income tax in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such jurisdiction, we are considered to be carrying on business there. Such laws may require you to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, those jurisdictions. We intend to conduct our affairs and cause each of our subsidiaries to operate its business in a manner that minimizes income taxes imposed upon us and our subsidiaries. Furthermore, we intend to conduct our affairs and cause each of our subsidiaries to operate its business in a manner that minimizes the risk that unitholders may be treated as having a permanent establishment or tax presence in a jurisdiction where we or our subsidiaries conduct activities simply by virtue of their ownership of our common units. However, because we are organized as a partnership, there is a risk in some jurisdictions that our activities or the activities of our subsidiaries may rise to the level of a tax presence that is attributed to our unitholders for tax purposes. If you are attributed such a tax presence in a jurisdiction, you may be required to file a tax return with, and to pay tax in, that jurisdiction based on your allocable share of our income. In addition, we may be required to obtain information from you in the event a tax authority requires such information to submit a tax return. 42 We may be required to reduce distributions to you on account of any tax withholding obligations imposed upon us by that jurisdiction in respect of such allocation to you. The United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that you directly or indirectly incur by virtue of an investment in us. 