D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to maintain and grow our user base or keep our users engaged through popular games, we will not be able to sustain our growth and our business may be materially and adversely affected. In order to achieve sustainable growth of our business, we must retain our existing users, attract new users, maximize the network effect of our platform and ultimately improve our monetization. This requires that we consistently launch popular games and release updates for our existing games to keep our users engaged and therefore staying within our platform of games. It also requires that we continue to strengthen the social connectivity of our platform to encourage viral social marketing and enhance user engagement. In order to deliver a better game-playing and social networking experience and deepen our understanding of our users, we need to invest in technology and research and development, including our cloud-based storage and computing infrastructure, data analysis engine and our technology related to SDKs, which are software development tools that allow for the creation of software packages or platforms. If we are unable to consistently deliver a satisfying user experience, we may lose our users. If we are unable to anticipate user preferences or behaviors or industry changes in order to market and promote new games, or if we are unable to extend the life cycle of the games that we currently operate, or if we are unable to provide sufficient social connectivity to our users as part of their game playing experience, our user base may not increase at the rate we anticipate, or at all, and it may even decrease. Furthermore, factors beyond our control, such as effects of seasonality, our game developer partners’ delays in granting us the source code of the games, non-optimal launch schedule of games by our distribution platform partners and mobile billing issues with our payment processing partners, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Despite our efforts in sourcing high-quality games and our rigorous game selection process, we cannot guarantee that the games we launch will gain popularity within a short period of time, if at all. Neither can we guarantee that popular games that we operate will continue to sustain their current level of popularity. Users may lose interest in our games over time despite our efforts in offering a diversified portfolio of games and improving or upgrading our existing games. Users may not choose our games or services if our technology becomes unreliable. Users may choose to play games offered by other platforms if those platforms offer better game services or social networking opportunities. Furthermore, many of our new games require a build-up period when users are first introduced to the games, and the rise in popularity of some games can be slow, if it happens at all. If a build-up period coincides with the inevitable phasing-out period of our older games, the result could be a decrease in the number of total active and paying users as well as gross billings and revenue during that period. If a game fails to gain anticipated user acceptance and we do not introduce additional games to maintain our user base, the phasing out of previous games could result in a prolonged period of or permanent decrease in our total active and paying users. If we fail to effectively schedule the initial launches of our games, our results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. The growth of our user base reinforces the popularity of our games. Our failure to effectively expand and engage our user base will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we fail to monetize our users effectively, our business may suffer. A substantial majority of the games we publish are free to download and play, adopting an item-based revenue model, and in line with the industry norms, only a small percentage of users who play our games in any period are paying users. For example, 5.6% of our active users were paying users in the fourth quarter of 2015. As such, in order to sustain our revenue growth, we must effectively monetize our user base by converting active users to paying users and by encouraging paying users to spend more on our games. We invest in user data mining and analysis to better understand our users’ in-game consumption patterns. This allows us to create localized and culturally-adapted editions of overseas games and help refine domestic games, as well as design virtual items that are desirable to mobile users in China and to properly deploy and price them to enhance our monetization. Our users are willing to pay for premium functions and purchase virtual items in the games because of the perceived value of these functions or items, which is dependent on the benefits such services or items confer upon the users in the game. Spending in our games is discretionary and our users can be sensitive to the price, undermining our ability to convert active users to paying users. It is crucial to balance, on the one hand, the creation of sufficient in-game monetization opportunities, which enhances the profitability of our games, and, on the other hand, ensuring that users can enjoy our games even without paying for extra functions or items. To stimulate in-game spending, we need to constantly launch marketing and promotional activities to drive user interest. While free-to-play games help to maintain a sizable user base and the associated network effect, it may not be optimal in terms of user monetization. We must also provide easy, fast and safe payment solutions to our users to facilitate in-game purchasing so they are not discouraged or inconvenienced by online payment processing procedures. If we fail to effectively monetize our users, our business will suffer. The consummation of the proposed going-private transaction is uncertain, and the process of consummating such transaction could disrupt our operation or distract our management’s attention, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 31, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the Merger Agreement, with respect to a going-private transaction, or the Transaction. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Proposed Going-Private Transaction.” The process of consummating the Transaction or any other significant strategic transaction involving our company could cause disruptions in our business and divert our management’s attention and other resources from day-to-day operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Transaction, which may not be recoverable even if the Transaction is not consummated. Additionally, uncertainty about the result and effect of the Transaction may adversely impact our ability to attract, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees and key personnel, including our executive leadership. The announcement and pendency of the Transaction could also have an adverse effect on our relationship with business partners and other counterparties, who may terminate or change such relationships or relevant business agreements. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that significantly restrict our business operation and financing activities. For example, the Merger Agreement restricts us, without the consent of the other signing parties, from making certain acquisitions and investments, from accessing the debt and capital markets, and from taking other specified actions until the proposed merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. The restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and taking other actions with respect to our business that we may consider advantageous. 7 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement contains several closing conditions, including certain shareholder approvals and other covenants that may be difficult to perform, and confers certain termination rights to the counterparties. There can be no assurance that the Transaction will be approved by the shareholders or consummated on a timely basis, or at all. If the Transaction does not close or the Merger Agreement is terminated for any reason, holders of our ADSs will not receive the proposed transaction consideration and market price for our ADSs may decline. Additionally, our ongoing business operation could be adversely affected and our company would be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • we could be required to pay a termination fee of $7.5 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; • we could have incurred substantial costs such as legal, financial advisor and printing fees for the Transaction without realizing its benefits, and could be required to pay certain additional costs for the other parties; and • our long-term business prospectus may be adversely affected because the negative perception associated with the failed transaction or because we could have lost significant business opportunities or failed to execute certain business strategies due to the restrictions in the Merger Agreement. • we may not be able to quickly re-position our company and find a strategic alternative to the Transaction. Furthermore, we could be subject to potential lawsuits in connection with the proposed going-private transaction. We have already been named as a defendant in several putative securities class action lawsuits in connection with our initial public offering. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Administrative Proceedings.” All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in the mobile game industry in China. If we fail to compete effectively, our user base and market share will be reduced quickly and significantly, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The mobile game industry in China is highly competitive. The industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements, as well as price sensitivity on the part of users. In China, we compete directly with domestic companies with integrated mobile game operation capabilities, such as Zhejiang Century Huatong Group Co. Ltd., Yodo1, Ltd., Zhongqinglongtu Network Co. Ltd., Chukong Holdings Limited and Kunlun.com. We also compete directly with overseas mobile game companies who may look to directly operate in the PRC market, such as GREE International, Inc., DeNA Co., Ltd., King Digital Entertainment plc and Electronic Arts Inc. China’s leading Internet and technology companies such as Tencent Holdings Limited and Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd. are our competitors since they may capitalize on their significant financial and technical resources and their large user bases to develop and publish mobile games. In addition, we face competition from other entertainment formats and mobile applications and content, such as mobile music, mobile books and social network services. Some of our existing and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and stronger relationships with industry participants than we do. If there are new entrants in the market or intensified competition among existing competitors, we may have to provide more incentives to industry participants, such as game developers and distributing agents, which could adversely affect our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could reduce and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because a small number of games generated a substantial amount of our revenues, if we fail to extend the life cycle of our existing top-grossing games or launch new popular games, we will not be able to maintain or grow our revenue and our financial results could be adversely affected. In 2015, we generated approximately 41.0% of our total revenues from our five top-grossing games, as compared to that of 45.0% in 2014. . Our top games may have a finite life span and may fall out of favor from users. As a result, we try to maximize the life cycle of our popular games by developing, releasing and marketing new editions or updates that will continue to engage our users, or by promoting those games among potential users. Failing to extend the life of our top-grossing games will materially and adversely affect our revenue growth and financial results. We must also identify and launch new games that will gain widespread popularity and become revenue growth drivers. This requires our substantial investment in game selection, research and development, sales and marketing and game operations. It is difficult to consistently anticipate user preference on a large scale. While we continue to invest significant resources in the launch of new games, we cannot assure you that new games, game editions or updates will be popular among our users and become profitable. 8 Table of Contents We work with game developers to provide games to our users. Any loss or deterioration of our relationship with our game developer partners may result in the loss of user base and revenues. We work with game developers to publish games on our platform. We have benefited from some of these developers’ strong brand recognition and the success of their games in domestic and overseas markets. Due to our strong relationship with many of our game developer partners, we are able to obtain the source code of many games, which allows us to play a more substantial role in the games’ operation in China. We believe this is crucial to building and expanding our user base and therefore the success of our platform, as well as to our ability to operate and monetize our games. However, we may not be able to maintain good and mutually beneficial commercial relationships with our game developer partners, including the developers of some of our most popular games, Imangi Studios, LLC, the developer of the Temple Run series, Kiloo A/S, who licenses Subway Surfers to us, and Halfbrick Studios Pty. Ltd., or Halfbrick, the developer of Fruit Ninja. Any failure on our part to properly and effectively localize, operate, market or monetize their games, safeguard their intellectual property, including the source code of their games, or perform our obligations under our agreements with them may cause substantial harm to our business relationships with the game developers. Because we are in the process of obtaining certain PRC regulatory approvals and licenses for our publishing business and games, we also may not be in strict compliance with the terms and conditions in some of our distribution agreements with game developers. The term of our content distribution agreements with game developers is typically two to three years, renewable upon both parties’ consent. Our game developer partners may terminate our agreements prior to their expiration voluntarily or as a result of our non-compliance with the terms or conditions, or they may refuse to renew the agreements. Even if they are willing to renew the agreements, they may demand commercial terms, such as revenue-sharing ratios, that are less favorable to us than under our existing agreements. They may choose to partner with our competitors, allowing our competitors to enhance their game portfolio and better compete against us. They may also fail to perform their obligations under the content distribution agreements, such as delivering the source code of the games on a timely basis, which will cause delays in the game launch schedule on our platform. We have published games developed by the subsidiaries of one of our variable interest entities, or VIEs, since 2014. Because our game developer partners may view us as current or potential competitors, we cannot assure you that such in-house development capability will not affect our relationship with our game developer partners. Any loss or deterioration of our relationship with any of our game developer partners may result in a loss of revenues and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We work with third-party channels to distribute our games, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if they breach their obligations to us, or if we fail to maintain relationships with a sufficient number of platforms, or if the platforms lose popularity among Internet users. In addition to our proprietary distribution channels, which include in-game cross promotions and our self-operated iDreamSky Game Center and www.uu.cc, we publish our games through mobile app stores, mobile pre-installations and other mobile channels owned and operated by third parties. We rely on these third parties to promote and publish our games, record gross billings, maintain the security of their platforms to prevent fraudulent activities, provide a certain portion of user services and, in some occasions, process payments from users. We may be negatively impacted if these third-party channels fail to effectively promote our games or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us or if they do not obtain or maintain relevant government licenses to distribute our games. Because some of our distribution partners record the gross billings generated in our games, any issues with their billing systems or the final confirmation of gross billings may impact user payment collection. Disputes with third-party platforms, such as disputes relating to intellectual property rights, distribution fee arrangements and billing issues, may also arise from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve such disputes in a timely manner or at all. If our collaboration with a major third-party platform terminates for any reason, we may not be able to find a replacement in a timely manner or at all and the distribution of our games may be adversely affected. Any failure on our part to maintain good relationships with a sufficient number of popular platforms for the distribution of our games could cause the number of our game downloads and activations to decrease, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We plan to build our own publishing platform to become a destination for fun and exciting mobile games. Our own platforms may compete with our distribution partners and adversely affect our relationships with them. Conversely, some of our distribution partners have their own in-house game development capabilities and our other distribution partners may consider establishing such capabilities in the future. We are therefore subject to direct competition and potential conflicts of interest with our distribution partners, which may intensify in the future, and we cannot assure you that our distribution partners will always maintain a cooperative relationship with us. If our distribution partners commit less resources to promote our games on their platforms, or cease to promote or distribute our games, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We distribute our games through China’s major mobile platforms, including major app stores and social networking platforms. The games will benefit from the strong brand recognition, large user base and the stickiness of these mobile platforms. If any of these mobile platforms lose their market positions or are no longer popular with users, our ability to reach more users will be limited. In addition, we would need to identify alternative channels for marketing, promoting and distributing our games, which would consume substantial resources and may not be effective. We work with China’s three mobile carriers to distribute our games and we rely on them to collect the gross billings generated from our games. The loss of or a change in any of these significant carrier relationships could materially harm our business. China’s three mobile carriers, China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, distribute our games and process payments made in our games. In particular, we collected through them a majority of the gross billings generated from our games, after deducting their payment processing fees, and we expect to continue to rely on them for payment processing in our games going forward. The percentages of payment processing fees charged by mobile carriers are relatively higher than those charged by other third-party payment channels, such as Alipay, Weixin Payments, China UnionPay and Tenpay. Additionally, due to their dominant position in China’s telecommunications industry, we have limited ability to negotiate economic terms with them. Our relationships with and ability to negotiate the payment processing and distribution fee terms with these mobile carriers directly affects our costs and profitability. Our agreements with the mobile carriers typically have a one- or two-year term. The carriers may terminate their agreements with us prior to expiration or refuse to renew the agreements. They may also demand to renegotiate the economic or other terms with us. The agreements generally do not obligate the mobile carriers to market or distribute any of our games. In many of these agreements, we warrant that we have the requisite qualifications to publish our games, our games do not contain libelous or obscene content, do not contain material defects or viruses and do not violate third-party intellectual property rights, and we indemnify the mobile carriers for any breach of a third party’s intellectual property. If we fail to comply with these warrants, the mobile carrier may terminate their agreements with us or sue us for damages. Furthermore, our ability to generate revenue through a given mobile carrier may be impaired by factors outside our control, including the mobile carriers’ preference for our competitors’ mobile games, the mobile carrier’s decision not to include or highlight our games on its distribution platforms, and any failure in its billing system or network connection. There may be regulatory policies or changes that may impose requirements with respect to the procedures for distribution and payment processing of mobile games, including those with respect to push notifications to users, billing and payment, in-game advertisements or other consumer-protection measures. These policies may increase our compliance costs and affect the effectiveness of our marketing or monetization effort. If any of our mobile carriers decides not to market or distribute our games or decides to terminate, not renew or modify the terms of its agreement with us, we may be unable to replace the affected agreement with acceptable alternatives, causing us to lose access to that carrier’s subscribers and the revenues generated from them, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to monetize our users is subject to third-party payment processing-related risks. We offer our users a variety of payment options, including direct billings through mobile carriers and other third-party online payment platforms, including the payment solutions offered by our distribution partners. Therefore, we rely on them to provide payment processing services to our users, which subject us to payment collection issues that are beyond our control, or even fraud and other illegal activities in connection with these various payment methods. We generally receive casual game gross billings through the mobile carriers and our mid- and hardcore game gross billings through third-party payment channels. The concentration of our payment channels could lead to a short-term disruption in our collection of the gross billings if one or more of them were to narrow or terminate its business cooperation with us, or demand commercial terms that are less favorable to us. Such concentration also makes us more vulnerable to collection risks should one or more of these providers become unable or unwilling to share the proceeds it receives with us. Our quarterly book-closing procedures will also be delayed if monthly gross billing confirmation process with our payment channel partners is not carried out on a timely basis. Our operations and business could be harmed if our relationships with one or more of these payment platforms deteriorate, or if one or more of the key payment platforms experience an increase in non-payment from users or failure to process user payments, or a decrease in their business generally. Furthermore, mobile carriers and third-party payment service providers are entitled to a prescribed percentage of the gross billings charged to our users. If these platforms fail to remit to us the proceeds collected from our users in a timely fashion or at all, if these platforms become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, or if their service quality deteriorates, our business could be disrupted. Our payment platform partners are also subject to various rules, regulations and requirements, regulatory or otherwise, governing electronic funds transfers and virtual currencies, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for them to comply. If our payment partners fail to comply with these rules or requirements, they may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose their ability to accept credit and debit card payments, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments from our users. This would materially and adversely affect our ability to monetize our users. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history under our current business model upon which to evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. We commenced operations of our first mobile game in April 2011. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries, such as the mobile game industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • retain existing users, attract new users and increase user activity and monetization; • license or acquire additional mobile games that are appealing to users; • expand partnerships with domestic and overseas content developers; • maintain and expand our distribution and payment network; • upgrade our technology and infrastructure to support increased traffic and expanded offerings of products and services; • anticipate and adapt to changing user preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; and • attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategy, including our current expansion into new genres of games, the mobile social networking business and game development and acquisition, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have expanded our product offerings to include games of various genres. To operate games in a new genre, we must identify and obtain licenses for appealing games with high monetization potential from both overseas and domestic game developers. We also depend on these game developers to provide technical support, and to develop updates and expansion packs to sustain user interest and attract new users to our games. We may not be able to successfully establish relationships with high-quality game developers and obtain licenses to their games. We also acquire games under game acquisition agreements. If the games that we acquire fail to become commercially successful, we may not be able to recoup our initial capital investments and receive the expected return, if at all. We may need to invest more financial, technical and human resources in connection with developing the games and producing their updates and new editions than we typically do with respect to our licensed games. Expansion into new genres of mobile games or new operation models may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter with our existing games. We also face competition from existing players within these markets who may have more experience and resources. We are also making significant investments in the development and upgrade of SkyNet, which enables our live in-game service, iDreamSky Game Center, which is our mobile application for game services, and www.uu.cc, which is our mobile game information website, all designed to provide social connectivity for our platform, enhance user engagement, promote our brand awareness and create additional monetization opportunities. We plan to continue to invest in the development of social connectivity functions on our platform. However, these functions may not be effective in achieving these goals and we may not be able to recover costs incurred for developing and marketing these functions. As a result, our future results of operations and growth strategies could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies, our revenue and profitability may not grow as expected, and our competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategy of acquiring and investing in complementary businesses, assets and technologies may result in operating difficulties, dilution to our investors and other negative consequences. We have selectively acquired and invest in, and intend to continue to acquire and invest in, businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business. Acquisitions and investments involve uncertainties and risks, including: • accurately identifying and evaluating potential acquisition targets with operations complementary to our existing operations; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • retaining key employees and maintaining the business relationships with the businesses we acquire; • failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue enhancement; • costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; • the need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting; • the possibility that, before the acquisition or investment, we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire or invest in; • significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures; • the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; and • diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. Furthermore, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of the ADSs and the underlying Class A ordinary shares. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. 12 Table of Contents We face putative securities class actions in the U.S., which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We and certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in three putative securities class action lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and one putative securities class action lawsuit filed in New York state court: Hung v. iDreamSky Technology Limited, et al., Civil Action No. 1:15-cv-02514 (S.D.N.Y.; filed on April 2, 2015); Griffith v. iDreamSky Technology Limited, et al., Civil Action No. 1:15-cv-02944 (S.D.N.Y.; filed on April 15, 2015); Jeremias v. iDreamSky Technology Limited, et al., Civil Action No. 1:15-cv-03484 (S.D.N.Y.) ( filed on May 5, 2015); and Mansour v. iDreamSky Technology Limited, et al., No. 651340/2015 (Sup. Ct. N.Y. County; filed on April 22, 2015). The complaints in the above-mentioned putative securities class action lawsuits allege that certain public statements made by our company during the respective alleged class periods, including our registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with our initial public offering, contained material misstatements and, and assert claims under the U.S. securities laws. On January 15, 2016, the court consolidated these actions in a single action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned In re iDreamSky Technology Limited Securities Litigation, Civil Action No. 1:15-cv-2514 (S.D.N.Y.) (JPO), and appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. On March 25, 2016, lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended class action complaint. The actions remain at their preliminary stages. We believe that the allegations contained in the complaints lack merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these lawsuits. In the event that our initial defense of these lawsuits is unsuccessful, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any appeal. Any adverse outcome of these cases, including any plaintiff’s appeal of a judgment in these lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, the confidence of our current or potential investors and users, and reputation. In addition, there can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will cover all or part of the defense costs, or any liabilities that may arise from these matters. Moreover, regardless of the merits of any claims or allegations advanced, responding to allegations, litigations or legal or administration proceedings and defending against litigations can be time consuming and costly, and may result in us incurring substantial legal and administrative expenses, as well as diverting the attention of our management and causing concerns among our employees. We also may be subject to claims for indemnification related to these matters, and we cannot predict the impact that indemnification claims may have on our business or financial results. Our founders and us have granted and may in the future grant shares, share options and restricted shares to our employees, and we will incur share-based compensation charges in connection with these grants, which will materially and adversely impact our net income. We adopted a share incentive plan in 2012, or the 2012 Plan, and a share incentive plan in 2014, or the 2014 Plan. As of the date of this annual report, options to purchase 240,000 Class A ordinary shares were outstanding under the 2012 Plan and the 2014 Plan. Further, in 2014 and 2015, we granted an aggregate of 13,026,080 and 4,833,450 restricted shares, respectively, to certain directors and employees at no consideration. The total fair value of these restricted shares would be recognized as share-based compensation expenses over the vesting period of 2 to 48 months. For each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, we recorded RMB0.3 million, RMB185.8 million and RMB103.8 million (US$16.0 million), respectively, in share-based compensation expenses. We will continue to grant shares, share options, restricted shares and other share-based compensation in the future in order to incentivize our directors, officers and other employees. Share-based compensation costs in relation to our grant of shares, share options and restricted shares to our employees may materially and adversely affect our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of our equity incentive plans. 13 Table of Contents Any failure or significant interruption in our technology infrastructure could impact our operations and harm our business. Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our games and to user satisfaction. Our games run on our proprietary SDK network, SkyNet and cloud computing system. Some elements of our technology infrastructure, such as our servers, are maintained by third parties that we do not control. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. If a particular game is unavailable when users attempt to access it, users may stop playing the game and may be less likely to return to the game as often, if at all. A failure or significant interruption in our game service would harm our reputation and operations. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and game performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our technology infrastructure and we do not have business interruption insurance, and our business and operations may suffer adverse effects as a result. We operate in a new and rapidly changing industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Our ability to generate revenue could suffer if the PRC mobile game market does not develop as anticipated. We derive substantially all of our revenue from the PRC mobile game industry, which is rapidly evolving. The growth of the mobile game industry in China and the level of demand and market acceptance of our games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results depend on numerous factors affecting the mobile game industry, many of which are beyond our control, including: • growth prospects of mobile games; • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; • changes in technologies; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; • the growth of mobile device users, and the rate of any such growth; • the growth of China’s telecommunications infrastructure, mobile network and payment system; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending. Our ability to formulate and execute publishing, distribution and marketing strategies will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in the tastes and preferences of our current and potential users. New and different types of entertainment may increase in popularity at the expense of mobile games. A decline in the popularity of mobile games or casual games in particular would harm our business and prospects. As China’s mobile games market has evolved rapidly in recent years with developments such as the introduction of new business models and new technology, the development of user preferences, market entry by new competitors and the adoption of new strategies by existing competitors, we expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in the mobile game market. There are numerous other technologies and business models in varying stages of development, such as portable tablet computers, notebooks or other mobile Internet handsets involving fourth generation mobile technologies, which could render certain current technologies or applications obsolete. If we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, our games may become obsolete or uncompetitive, and our business prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict user acceptance and demand for our existing and potential new games, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Given the limited history and rapidly evolving nature of our market, we cannot predict how much users will be willing to pay for our mobile games or whether users will have concerns over security, reliability, cost and quality of service associated with mobile games. If acceptance of our mobile games is different than anticipated, our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and profits could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Breaches of security measures of our website, games and third-party payment systems and unintended disclosures of user and game data may materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. As we conduct our business, we process, store and analyze personal information and other data. We rely on proprietary encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to enable secure transmission of confidential user information, including user name and password. However, our security controls over user and game data may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. A party who is able to circumvent these security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. A security breach that leads to disclosure of user account information, including mobile numbers or other personally identifiable information, could harm our reputation. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to user privacy could harm our business. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to prevent such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We may also lose current or potential users for our mobile games that allow us to access our users’ personal data of our users because of the perception that we cannot adequately protect our users’ privacy. Additionally, our business operation may be harmed by users’ concerns over playing games on their mobile phones. Hackers may modify our games to charge our users for virtual items that they did not purchase. We can typically identify hacked game applications after our users start playing the game and alert users of the situation and urge them to uninstall the game application. However, such users may become hesitant in downloading the game again or other games operated by us in the future as a result of their experience. Concerns over the security and privacy of user information may inhibit the wireless business generally, and our mobile games in particular. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches and our users’ interest in playing mobile games may decrease if malware spreads to their mobile phones. Failure to prevent security breaches or respond to abuse or users’ concerns over development of mobile phone malware may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, secure transmission of confidential information, such as users’ debit and credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks, including our website, is essential for maintaining user confidence. We do not have control over the security measures of our third-party payment platform partners, and their security measures may not be adequate at present or may not be adequate with the expected increased usage of online payment systems. We could be exposed to litigation and possible liability if we fail to safeguard confidential user information, which could harm our reputation and our ability to attract or retain users and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Undetected programming errors or defects in our mobile games could harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our mobile games are subject to frequent improvement and updates, and may contain bugs or flaws that may become apparent only after the updated applications are accessed by mobile users, particularly as we launch new updates under tight time constraints. From time to time, our users may inform us of programming bugs affecting their experience, and we are generally able to resolve such flaws promptly. However, if for any reason, programming bugs or flaws are not resolved in a timely fashion, we may lose some of our users and our revenues will be affected negatively, and our reputation and market acceptance of our mobile games may also be harmed. In addition, the PRC government has promulgated rules and regulations targeting mobile service providers that charge for applications and other content without user consent. If a programming error or flaw in our products inadvertently charges users without consent, we may be subject to administrative penalties and fines. Unauthorized character enhancements, other hacking or cheating activities, and undetected programming errors or defects in our virtual worlds could harm our online business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. With the increase in the number of game users in China, game operators have increasingly encountered problems arising from the use of unauthorized character enhancements, theft of user account information and other hacking or cheating activities. We have from time to time detected a number of users who have gained an unfair advantage by installing hacking or cheating tools to facilitate character progression. In response to these activities, we have installed detection mechanisms in our games to identify various hacking and cheating activities, and have expanded our technical team dedicated to detecting unauthorized character enhancements and resolving other hacking issues. However, these measures may not be effective against hacking. 15 Table of Contents Continued occurrences of unauthorized character enhancements, other hacking or cheating activities, and undetected errors or defects in our games will harm user experience, which may negatively impact the image of our games and users’ perception of their reliability, reduce our user number and in-game spending, shorten the life span of the games and adversely affect our results of operations. A constant recurrence of these activities may require us to shift our management’s and personnel’s attention from research and development and other operations to focus instead primarily on anti-hacking programs and activities, which could hurt our ability to offer content updates and new games and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may not be successful in effectively promoting our brand or enhancing our brand recognition, and any negative publicity, regardless of its veracity, may harm both the brand of our company and the specific games we publish. The reputation of our “iDreamSky” brand is growing among mobile game players in China as a quality publishing platform of fun and exciting games. Promoting our iDreamSky brand and enhancing its recognition is an integral part of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to effectively promote or develop our brand and if we fail to do so, our growth may be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity or disputes regarding our brand, games and services, company or management could materially and adversely affect public perception of our brand and other products and services we offer. Any negative publicity in relation to us, regardless of its veracity, could harm the image of our company and the games we publish, which in turn would decrease the number of active users from the operation of our online business. Any impact on our ability to effectively promote our brand and any significant damage to the public perception of our iDreamSky brand or our products could materially and adversely affect our prospects and results of operations. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may harm our brands and reputation and adversely affect our business. We regard the intellectual property rights granted to us by our game developer partners, as well as our own copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may harm our brands and reputation and adversely affect our business. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, restrictions on disclosure and other agreements that restrict the use of our intellectual properties to protect our intellectual property rights. Although our contracts with our business partners prohibit the unauthorized use of our franchises, brands and other intellectual property rights, we cannot assure you that they will always comply with these terms. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, third parties may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, limiting our ability to assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Although we presently enter into confidentiality agreements with all of our employees and impose stringent obligations on our core research and development employees with respect to confidentiality, we cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our proprietary technology, know-how or other intellectual property will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, third parties. Any failure to protect our game developer partners’ intellectual properties will also subject us to severe consequences, including loss of game distributorships and payment of damages. While we actively take steps to protect our proprietary rights and those of our game developer partners, such steps may not be adequate to prevent the infringement or misappropriation of our and their intellectual property. For example, for overseas games that we publish in China, we typically apply for trademark registration for the Chinese titles of these games. However, certain third parties may apply to register these Chinese titles in the relevant trademark categories before we do, and, if their registration is granted, before we successfully appeal to invalidate such registration, such registration may exclude us from publishing the games under the same title and the third parties may even make intellectual property infringement claims against us. Our ability to market these games will be materially adversely affected by any such intellectual property disputes. Moreover, we have no control over third parties who clone and offer counterfeits of our games which may be misleading to users. In addition, we cannot assure you that our trademark applications will ultimately proceed to registration or will result in registration with adequate scope for our business. Some of our pending applications or registrations may be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark applications are not successful, we may have to use different marks for affected products or services, or seek to enter into arrangements with any third parties who may have prior registrations, applications or rights, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 16 Table of Contents Primarily due to ambiguities in the laws and difficulties in enforcement, intellectual property right protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from promoting our products and services. We have from time to time received claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, and may in the future receive more claims. Although we are not the developer of the games that we license, third parties may claim that, as the publisher of the games, we are also liable for any infringement upon the third parties’ rights, jointly, with the developer. We typically rely on our game developer partners’ representations that their games do not infringe upon third parties’ intellectual property rights and we require indemnification should any such representations become inaccurate and we suffer damage as a result, including any damages resulting from third party claims. However, games we license may from time to time infringe upon valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties and indemnification may not be adequate in recovering our loss. Game features redesigned by us may also be claimed to have infringed upon third parities’ rights. Any such claim or litigation, with or without merit, could be costly and distract our management from day-to-day operations. If we fail to successfully defend against such claim or do not prevail in such litigation, we could be required to modify, redesign or cease operating the games, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our users. Any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, if we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. This exposure to liability could result in disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our current and potential competitors. We may hire additional personnel to expand our development team and technical support team as our company grows. To the extent these employees are involved in the development of content or technology similar to ours at their former employers, we may become subject to claims that these employees or us have appropriated proprietary information or intellectual property rights of the former employers of our employees. If we fail to successfully defend such claims against us, we may be exposed to liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The successful operation of our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Our game operation and distribution depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. Although the PRC government has pledged to improve the Internet infrastructure in China as part of its stimulus package introduced in the first quarter of 2009, a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure may not be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. The mobile network in China is operated by three mobile carriers, including China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, all of which are controlled by the PRC government. Mobile coverage may not be reliable, and any disruption in the operation of the mobile carriers may have a negative impact on our users’ ability to download and activate our games, as well as their gameplay and payment experience. There is no assurance that China’s mobile network infrastructure will continue to improve and further support the operation and expansion of our business. 17 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network and computer infrastructure may cause significant harm to our business operation and the distribution of our games. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our services, could adversely impact our ability to operate our games and service our users and lead to user attrition and revenue reduction. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer hacking and other similar events. Expansion into international markets is important for our growth, and as we expand internationally, we will face additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks, any of which could increase our costs and hinder such growth. Since the third quarter of 2014, we have launched games in overseas markets, including in Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan markets. We have also made investments in the U.S. We plan to continue to expand our business internationally. We have little experience in overseas markets. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote our brand internationally. The expansion of our business into such geographic markets may not be profitable on a sustained basis for many reasons including, but not limited to: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulations of mobile usage and mobile games and restrictive governmental actions, such as trade protection measures, nationalization and restrictions on foreign ownership; • restrictions on sales or distribution of mobile content and uncertainty regarding intellectual property rights and liability for content and services on our platform; • business licensing or certification requirements, such as those for mobile game content; • limited telecommunications, content distribution and payment infrastructure; • laws and regulations regarding user protection, data protection, privacy, network security, encryption and restrictions on pricing; • lower levels of mobile and Internet use; • lower levels of consumer spending and fewer growth opportunities compared to our current geographic markets; • lower levels of online payment and increased payment risk; and • difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of language and cultural differences. As we expand our game operations to other countries, competition will intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, local users, as well as their more established local brand names. They benefit from reduced logistics costs and local marketing experience in their competition with us. Our success depends on the continuing and collaborative efforts of our management team and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our key management team, including our founders. If one or more of our executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our executives or key personnel, or attract and retain experienced executives or key personnel in the future. If any of our executives or other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, distributors, know-how and key personnel. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality provisions. If a dispute arises between any of our executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you to what extent any of these agreements may be enforced. 18 Table of Contents We rely on highly skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain or motivate them or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depend on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals, especially research and development and sales and marketing personnel. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the mobile games industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Since the demand and competition for talent is intense in our industry, particularly for mobile game development personnel, engineers and related technical personnel, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future, which could increase our compensation expenses. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. Our internal control over financial reporting was considered ineffective as of December 31, 2015 and may continue to be ineffective in the future, and management’s report on internal control was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent auditor, all of which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. We are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis and to include in our annual report on Form 20-F management’s report on that assessment. However, our independent registered public accounting firm was not required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting since we were still qualified as an “emerging growth company” as of December 31, 2015 under the Securities Act of 1933. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officers, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. Based on its assessment, our management concluded that, as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, December 31, 2015, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. Our management identified two material weaknesses. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, has defined a material weakness as “a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected.” The first material weakness identified by our management was our lack of sufficient accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge of U.S. GAAP and Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, reporting requirements to properly address complex U.S. GAAP technical accounting issues and prepare and review financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements. The second material weakness was our lack of effective control procedures, including the lack of a comprehensive accounting manual, to track, estimate and record the revenue that we share with our game developer partners and to assess the completeness and accuracy of the related accruals on the shared revenue and withheld taxes. To address these material weaknesses, we have adopted and implemented remedial measures designed to enhance our internal control over financial reporting, including (i) providing additional training for our new and existing accounting personnel by expanding and enhancing their training program on U.S. GAAP financial statements preparation and financial reporting; and (ii) implementing and improving our accounting manual to enhance our ability to track, estimate and record the game revenue that we share with our game developer partners and to assess the completeness and accuracy of the related accruals on the shared revenue and withheld taxes. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” These remedial measures and any future enhancements, however, may not be adequate to eliminate the material weaknesses or otherwise ensure that our internal controls are effective. Ineffective internal controls can result in errors or other problems in our financial statements. Even if material weaknesses identified do not cause our financial statements to be unreliable, if we continue to be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could still lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We will be unable to achieve acceptable internal controls with only one officer and director. In the event that our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls in connection with their audit of our financial statements, and in the event that they are unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy themselves as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we would receive a qualified or an adverse audit opinion on those financial statements, which could also adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and our ability to secure additional financing as needed. 19 Table of Contents We may be unable to secure additional funding in the future or to obtain such funding on favorable terms. We may require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary principally depending on the timing of new product launches, investments and/or acquisitions, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially if there is a recession or other events causing volatilities in the capital markets worldwide. We have limited insurance coverage which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. Other than mandatory and commercial insurance for our employees, we have not purchased any insurance to cover our assets, property and business. If we were to incur substantial losses or liabilities due to fire, explosions, floods, a wide range of other natural disasters or accidents or business interruption, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantiated operations within the Peoples’ Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China including that performed by our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on certain PRC-based accounting firms in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC, we could be unable to file future financial statements on a timely basis in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this sanction. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures or if there is a failure in the process between the SEC and the CSRC, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. 20 Table of Contents In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another independent registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies registered under the Exchange Act, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or deregistration from the SEC, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We conduct certain aspects of our businesses in China through our VIEs by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We conduct the operation of our domestic business through Shenzhen Mengyu, Shenzhen iDreamSky and Beijing Chuangmeng, or our VIEs, and their subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of the economic benefits of our VIEs as their primary beneficiary through contractual arrangements with them and their shareholders. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements among Chuangmeng Wuxian, our VIEs and the Respective Shareholders of our VIEs.” Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in telecommunication services, including operating mobile games. On December 11, 2001, the State Council promulgated the Provisions on Administration of Foreign Invested Telecommunications Enterprises, which were subsequently amended on September 10, 2008. Under such regulations, foreign ownership in companies that provide value-added telecommunication services shall not exceed 50%. The Guiding Catalog for Foreign Investment Industries (revised in 2015) categorizes the value-added telecommunications services (excluding e-commerce) as “restricted.” Further, the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business issued by the MIIT in July 2006, or the MIIT Circular, reiterates restrictions on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses. Under the MIIT Circular, a PRC company that holds a license to conduct value-added telecommunications businesses, or a VATS License, in China is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors to conduct value-added telecommunications businesses illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in a value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local VATS License holder or its shareholder(s). The MIIT Circular further requires each VATS License holder to have appropriate facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Each of Shenzhen iDreamSky and Shenzhen Mengyu holds a regional VATS License for information services excluding fixed telephone information services. Shenzhen iDreamSky also holds a trans-regional VATS License for information services excluding fixed telephone information services and Internet information services. Shenzhen iDreamSky owns idreamsky.com and Shenzhen Mengyu owns www.uu.cc, and each of them has applied to register the relevant trademarks. However, due to a lack of interpretative materials from the authorities, it is uncertain whether the MIIT would consider our corporate structures and contractual arrangements as a type of foreign investment in telecommunication services in China. Therefore, it is unclear what impact the MIIT Circular might have on us. 21 Table of Contents In August 2011, the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or Circular No. 6, promulgated on February 3, 2011. Under these rules, a security review by the MOFCOM is required for foreign investors’ mergers and acquisitions that have “national defense and security” implications and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire “de facto control” of domestic enterprises that have “national security” implications. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that mobile game businesses fall within the scope of transactions subject to security review. We do not believe we are required to submit our existing contractual arrangement to the MOFCOM for a security review. However, as there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, there is no assurance that the MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying these national security review-related circulars and rules. The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure violates PRC laws and regulations. Although we believe we comply, and will continue to comply with current PRC regulations, the PRC government may not agree that these contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing requirements or policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. It is possible that a PRC court, arbitration tribunal or other regulatory authority may determine that such contractual arrangements are illegal or invalid. If the PRC government determines that we are not in compliance with applicable laws, it may levy fines on us, confiscate our income that they deem to have been obtained through illegal operations, revoke or refuse to renew any business and operating licenses required to conduct our operations in China, revoke the agreements constituting the contractual arrangements, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, suspend the operation of our games, require us to alter our ownership structure or operations, or impose additional conditions or restrictions on our business operations with which we may not be able to comply, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. If the PRC government determines that our ownership structure does not comply with the restrictions contained in the GAPP Notice, we could be subject to severe penalties. We are subject to relevant PRC regulations on operators of online games. On September 28, 2009, the PRC General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, which was consolidated with the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television and currently known as the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or the SAPPRFT, together with the National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Circular on Implementation of the Regulation on the Three Provisions of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations and Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Game and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Game, or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice provides, among other things, that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments, and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in PRC operating companies’ online game operations through indirect ways, such as establishing other joint venture companies, entering into contractual arrangements with or providing technical support for such operating companies, or through a disguised form, such as incorporating user registration, user account management or payment through game cards into online gaming platforms that are ultimately controlled or owned by foreign investors. We are not aware of any online game companies adopting the same or similar contractual arrangements as ours having been penalized or ordered to be terminated since the GAPP Notice first became effective. Due to the ambiguity among various regulations on online games and a lack of interpretative materials from the relevant PRC authorities governing online game operations, there are uncertainties regarding whether PRC authorities would consider our corporate structure and contractual arrangements to be foreign investment in online game operation businesses. While we are not aware of any online game companies which use the same or similar contractual arrangements as ours having been penalized or ordered to terminate operation by PRC authorities claiming that the contractual arrangements constitute control over, or participation in the operation of, online game operating businesses through indirect means, it is unclear whether and how the various regulations of the PRC authorities might be interpreted or implemented in the future. If our contractual arrangements were deemed to be such an “indirect means” or “disguised form” under the GAPP Notice, our contractual arrangements may be challenged by the SAPPRFT. If we, our PRC subsidiaries or VIEs are found to be in violation of the GAPP Notice to operate our mobile games, the SAPPRFT, in conjunction with relevant regulatory authorities, would have the power to investigate and deal with such violations, including in the most serious cases where relevant licenses and registrations would be suspended or revoked. 22 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. Our VIEs and their shareholders may fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs to conduct our domestic business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure—Contractual Arrangements among Chuangmeng Wuxian, our VIEs and the Respective Shareholders of our VIEs.” These contractual arrangements provide us with effective control over our VIEs through which we operate our business and allow us to obtain economic benefits from them. However, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. For example, if our VIEs or their respective shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, or if they take other actions that are detrimental to our interests, we may incur substantial costs and resources in connection with our enforcing these arrangements. To enforce these arrangements, we may rely on legal remedies available under applicable PRC laws, including seeking specific performance and claiming damages. In particular, if shareholders of our VIEs refuse to transfer their equity interests to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may need to initiate legal actions to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. Such arbitration and legal proceedings and disputes may cost us substantial financial and other resources and result in disruption of our business, and the outcome might not be in our favor. The relevant PRC arbitration panel may conclude that our contractual arrangements violate PRC law or are otherwise unenforceable and we could consequently lose our ability to consolidate our VIEs’ results of operations, assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and/or to transfer the revenues of our VIEs to Chuangmeng Wuxian (Beijing) Information & Technology Co., Ltd., or Chuangmeng Wuxian, our wholly owned subsidiary. In addition, the shareholders of our VIEs may not continuously act in the best interests of our company and follow our instructions despite their contractual obligations to do so. If we had direct ownership in our VIEs, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders, rather than our rights under the powers of attorney, to effect changes to their boards of directors, which in turn could implement changes at the management and operational level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our VIEs or their respective shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be sufficient or effective. For example, if we sought to enforce the exclusive option agreements for the transfer of equity interests in any of our VIEs, the transfer would be subject to approval by governmental authorities, such as the MIIT and the MOFCOM, and the transfer price requirements of the relevant government authorities. The transferee would be required to comply with various requirements, including qualification and maximum foreign shareholding percentage requirements. As these governmental authorities have wide discretion in granting such approvals, we could fail to obtain such approval. In addition, our contractual agreements might not be enforceable in China if PRC governmental authorities or courts took the view that such contracts contravened PRC law or were otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law, and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, prevailing parties in an arbitration proceeding may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay, or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business and operations in China could be disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties and changes in the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect our business.” 23 Table of Contents Our ability to enforce the share pledge agreements may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Under the contractual arrangements, Chuangmeng Wuxian entered into an equity interest pledge agreement with each of our VIEs and the shareholders of our VIEs. Under the equity interest pledge agreements, the shareholders of our VIEs agreed to pledge their equity interests in the VIEs to Chuangmeng Wuxian to secure the VIEs’ and the shareholders’ performance of their obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. However, the equity pledge under the equity interest pledge agreements among Chuangmeng Wuxian, Beijing Chuangmeng and its shareholders has not been registered with the local branch of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC. The PRC Property Rights Law that was promulgated on March 16, 2007 and became effective on October 1, 2007 provides that registration with the local branch of the SAIC is necessary to create security interest on the equity interests of a PRC limited liability company, which means that before the equity pledge is duly registered with the local branch of the SAIC, the equity pledge is unenforceable even though the relevant equity interests pledge agreement is binding. The shareholders of one of our VIEs, Beijing Chuangmeng, are in the process of applying with the local branch of the SAIC in Beijing, for registration of their equity pledge. However, there is no guarantee that that the shareholders of Beijing Chuangmeng will complete the registration in a timely manner. If any shareholder fails to complete the registration of his equity pledge, then such pledge will not become effective and Chuangmeng Wuxian will not be able to effectively exercise the pledge of such shareholder’s equity interests in Beijing Chuangmeng. If we are unable to enforce the equity interest pledge agreements, we may not be able to exert effective control over Beijing Chuangmeng and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Further, the equity interest pledge agreements with our VIEs’ shareholders provide that the pledged equity interests constitute security for all of the payment obligations of the VIEs and the shareholders under the contractual arrangements. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount indicated on the equity pledge registration documents filed with the local branch of the SAIC represents the full debt amount that the pledge secures. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in these equity interest pledge agreements in excess of the amount indicated on the equity pledge registration documents could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, in which case the protection of our interest in the VIEs’ payments to us is limited. The shareholders of our VIEs have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. The registered shareholders of our VIEs are two of our directors, namely, Michael Xiangyu Chen and Anfernee Song Guan. Thus, conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and their interests as the controlling shareholders of our VIEs may arise. They may not act entirely in our interest when conflicts of interest arise and conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Chen and Mr. Guan could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us. If we are unable to resolve any such conflicts, or if we suffer significant delays or other obstacles as a result of such conflicts, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and reputation. The shareholders of our VIEs may be involved in personal disputes with third parties or other incidents that may have an adverse effect on their respective equity interests in our VIEs and the validity or enforceability of the contractual arrangements. For example, in the event that any shareholder of our VIEs divorces his or her spouse, the spouse may claim that the equity interest of our VIEs held by such shareholder is part of their marital or community property. If such claim is supported by the competent PRC court, the relevant equity interest may be obtained by the shareholder’s spouse or another third party who is not bound by our contractual arrangements, which could result in our losing effective control over our VIEs. Similarly, if any of the equity interests of our VIEs are inherited by a third party on whom the current contractual arrangements are not binding, we could lose our control over our VIEs or have to maintain such control at unpredictable cost, which could cause significant disruption to our business, operations and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Although under our current contractual arrangements, (i) the spouse of each of the shareholders of our VIEs has executed a spousal consent letter, under which such spouse has undertaken that she will not make any assertions in connection with the equity interests of our VIEs, as the case may be, which are held by the registered shareholder, and if such spouse obtain any equity interests of our VIEs, as the case may be, for any reasons, she shall be bound by the contractual arrangements and comply with the obligations thereunder as a shareholder thereof, and (ii) it is expressly provided in the agreements that the rights and obligations thereunder shall be equally effective and binding on the successors of the contracting parties, we cannot assure you that these undertakings and arrangements will be complied with or effectively enforced. If any of these undertakings or arrangements is breached or becomes unenforceable and leads to legal proceedings, it could disrupt our business, distract management and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 24 Table of Contents We may lose the ability to use and enjoy the benefits of the assets held by our VIEs that are important to the operations of our business if such entity goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Shenzhen iDreamSky is our primary operating entity. Shenzhen Mengyu operates some of our business and Beijing Chuangmeng currently does not engage in any business of our company. Our VIEs, particularly Shenzhen iDreamSky, hold assets and perform functions that are important to the operations of our business. If any of our VIEs enters into bankruptcy and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our VIEs undergoes a voluntary or involuntary dissolution or liquidation proceeding, third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business in the PRC, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contractual arrangements with our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences. Under PRC laws and regulations, an arrangement or transaction among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that our VIEs adjust their taxable income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment for PRC tax purposes if contractual arrangements among related parties do not represent arm’s length prices. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by reducing, for PRC tax purposes, expense deductions recorded by our VIEs, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities and expenses. In addition, any of our VIEs may be subject to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. As a result, our contractual arrangements with our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences to us. If our VIEs generate net income from transactions with our PRC subsidiaries under the contractual arrangements in the future and the PRC tax authorities decide to make transfer pricing adjustments on their net income, our consolidated net income may be adversely affected. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose interest on late payments on our VIEs for the adjusted but unpaid taxes. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of the draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The MOFCOM published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The comments solicitation stage has concluded and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether the investment in China is made by a foreign investor or a PRC domestic investor. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that an entity established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as a foreign investor, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local branches, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover, among others, having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. If the foreign investment falls within a “negative list,” to be separately issued by the State Council in the future, market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local branches would be required. 25 Table of Contents The “variable interest entity” structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See “—We conduct certain aspects of our businesses in China through our VIEs by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected.” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, if a VIE is ultimate controlled by a foreign investor via contractual arrangement, it would be deemed as a foreign investment. Accordingly, for the companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the “negative list,” the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC individual, or PRC government and its branches or agencies). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the VIEs will be treated as foreign invested enterprises and any operation in the industry category on the “negative list” without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. It is uncertain whether we would be considered as ultimately controlled by Chinese persons or not. The draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese persons. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the value-added telecommunication services and game operating services, which our VIEs provide, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the “negative list” to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final “negative list” mandate further actions, such as the MOFCOM market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face substantial uncertainties as to whether these actions can be timely completed, or at all, and our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable foreign invested entities. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with the information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Risks Related to Doing Business in China We have not obtained certain governmental approvals with respect to some of our mobile games and our game publishing business. On June 3, 2010, the PRC Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, issued the Provisional Measures for Administration of Online Games, or the Online Game Measures, which came into effect on August 1, 2010. The Online Game Measures are intended to strengthen the MOC’s supervision over online games which include mobile games. Pursuant to the Online Game Measures, the MOC is responsible for the review and regulation of online games, both imported and domestically developed. With respect to an imported mobile game, online operation may not commence until such game has been approved by the MOC after its content review. With respect to a domestic mobile game, a record filing must be made with the MOC within 30 days from the commencement of its online operation. As of the date of this annual report, we have completed content review or record filing of some of our mobile games. We are in the process of applying for content review or record filing, as the case may be, for some of the remaining games we operate. However, we may not be able to receive approval or complete the record filing of such games in the near future or at all. In addition, the MOC may find that operating imported mobile games without prior content review or domestic mobile games without a timely record filing violates the Online Game Measures. As a result, the MOC may, among other things, order us to rectify the situation, levy fines of up to RMB30,000 against us, confiscate our income generated from the unlicensed games during the non-compliance period and/or restrict or suspend our operation of such games or our mobile game business as a whole, including revoking the Internet Culture Operation License, a license required for the operation of mobile games, of Shenzhen iDreamSky and Shenzhen Mengyu. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents In addition to the MOC’s content review and record filing procedures, the GAPP Notice provides that the SAPPRFT, formerly known as the GAPP, is the governmental department with the authority to examine and approve online games. Under the GAPP Notice, each online game is required to be approved by the SAPPRFT prior to the commencement of its publication in China. On February 4, 2016, SAPPRFT and MIIT jointly issued the Administrative Provisions on Internet Publishing Services, or the Internet Publishing Regulations, which came into effect on March 10, 2016 and replaced the Interim Provisions for the Administration of Internet Publishing promulgated in 2002. The Internet Publishing Regulations also stipulate that online game is a type of internet publication, and an online game shall be approved by the SAPPRFT before publication. Although we did not apply for approval from the SAPPRFT prior to the launch of our mobiles games, we obtained approval for some of our games from the SAPPRFT in the second half of 2014 and in 2015, and are in the process of applying to the SAPPRFT for the approval of some of the remaining games that we operate. We may not be able to obtain the SAPPRFT’s approval of such games in the near future or at all. In addition, the SAPPRFT may find that our publishing of the games without its pre-approval violates the GAPP Notice and the Internet Publishing Regulations, and may impose penalties on us, such as ordering us to rectify the situation, confiscating illegal income generated from such games, imposing fines on us, and/or restricting or suspending our operation of such games or our online game business as a whole, including terminating our Internet services and shutting down our websites. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The GAPP Notice and the Internet Publishing Regulations also require that each online game operator, including mobile game operator, must obtain an Internet Publishing License in order to provide online game services. Two of our VIEs and one of the subsidiaries of our VIEs have mobile game operations and have not obtained the Internet Publishing License, and are preparing to apply for the license from the SAPPRFT. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain the Internet Publishing License in the near future or at all. If we are found to be operating online game businesses without the Internet Publishing License, the SAPPRFT may notify the relevant local telecommunications authorities to revoke our VATS License and notify the relevant local branch of the SAIC to amend or revoke our business license. In addition, the SAPPRFT may, among other things, levy fines on us of up to five to ten times of the turnover generated from our game operations during the non-compliance period, confiscate income generated from our game operations during the non-compliance period and require us to discontinue our mobile game publishing business. If the SAPPRFT brings such actions or imposes penalties against us, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Certain penalties may be imposed on us for operations beyond the scope of the VATS License, which may materially and adversely affect our business and operations. According to the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Permit, or the Telecom Permit Measures, which were issued by the MIIT and became effective on April 10, 2009, the VATS License, are categorized into trans-regional VATS Licenses and VATS Licenses for operation within a specific region. A holder of a trans-regional VATS License is required to set up its subsidiaries or branches at relevant administrative regions based on the requirements of the VATS License and file its trans-regional VATS License with the local branch of the MIIT in each region where it has operations. The operation scope of the license will detail the permitted activities of the operator to which the license was granted. An approved telecommunication services operator must conduct its business in accordance with the specifications listed in its VATS License. Each of Shenzhen iDreamSky and Shenzhen Mengyu holds a valid VATS License for information services excluding fixed telephone information services. The service coverage of both VATS Licenses is limited to Guangdong Province. However, we are advised by our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, that given the geographic coverage of our business, we are required to hold the trans-regional VATS license. Shenzhen iDreamSky holds a trans-regional VATS License for information services excluding fixed telephone information services and Internet information services, while Shenzhen Mengyu is in the process of applying for such trans-regional VATS License. Under PRC laws and regulations, if Shenzhen Mengyu is found to operate value added telecommunications business beyond the scope of its VATS License, it may face administrative penalties, including fines or the confiscation of income generated from any business that was not within the scope of the VATS License during the non-compliance period, or being ordered to suspend their operations. Any of these penalties, if imposed, may materially and adversely affect our business and results of our operations. 27 Table of Contents Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or licenses or change our current business model. In January 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling having implications for the use of virtual currency. To curtail games that involve online gambling, as well as address concerns that virtual currency could be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (i) prohibits online game operators from charging commissions in the form of virtual currency in relation to winning or losing of games; (ii) requires online game operators to impose limits on the use of virtual currency in guessing and betting games; (iii) bans the conversion of virtual currency into real currency or property; and (iv) prohibits services that enable players to transfer virtual currency to other players. In February 2007, fourteen PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular to further strengthen the oversight of Internet cafes and online games. Under the circular, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, has authority to regulate virtual currency, including: (i) setting limits on the aggregate amount of virtual currency that can be issued by game operators and the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual; (ii) stipulating that virtual currency issued by game operators can only be used for purchasing virtual products and services within the online games and not for purchasing tangible or physical products; (iii) requiring that the price for redemption of virtual currency shall not exceed the respective original purchase price; and (iv) banning the trading of virtual currency. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and MOFCOM jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening the administration of online game virtual currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice. The notice requires businesses that (i) issue online game virtual currency (in the form of prepaid cards or prepayment or prepaid card points) or (ii) offer online game virtual currency transaction services, to apply for approval from the MOC through its provincial branches within three months after the issuance of the notice. The notice also prohibits businesses that issue online game virtual currency from providing services that would enable the trading of such virtual currency. The notice further requires an online game operator engage in the provision of virtual currency transaction service to comply with relevant e-commerce regulations issued by the MOFCOM. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Online Game Measures, which became effective August 1, 2010, according to which (i) companies that plan to engage in the operation of online games, issuance of virtual currency and provision of virtual currency transaction services shall obtain a license from the provincial counterpart of the MOC; (ii) virtual currency may only be used to purchase services and products provided by the online game operator that issues the currency; (iii) the purpose of issuing virtual currency shall not be malicious appropriation of the user’s advance payment; (iv) the storage period of online gamers’ purchase record shall not be shorter than 180 days; and (v) the types, price and total amount of virtual currency shall be filed with the provincial counterpart of the MOC. The business scope in the Internet Cultural Operation Licenses of Shenzhen iDreamSky and Shenzhen Mengyu includes the issuance of virtual currency. While we do not believe we offer in-game virtual currency trading services, in some mobile games the players are allowed to purchase in-game virtual currency or credits with RMB for use in these games. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours or will deem that we are not in full compliance with the regulations on virtual currency. In that event, we may be required to cease either our game credit issuance activities or such deemed “trading service” activities and may be subject to certain penalties, including but not limited to mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice prohibits online game operators from setting game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players for the chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. It is unclear whether these restrictions would apply to certain aspects of our mobile games. If the PRC regulatory authorities take a view that certain of our game features are prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice, we may be subject to penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. Currently there is no law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is unclear what liabilities, if any, mobile game operators may have for virtual assets. During the course of playing mobile games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, user experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to users and have monetary value and in some cases are sold among users for actual money. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service, a network crash or hacking activities. Currently, there is no PRC law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, there is uncertainty as to who is the legal owner of virtual assets, whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law, and whether an operator of mobile games such as us would have any liability to users or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for the loss of virtual assets. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our users and held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not been involved in any virtual assets related law suits. However, we cannot assure you that such law suits will not be brought against us in the future. 28 Table of Contents Based on several judgments by PRC courts regarding the liabilities of game operators for loss of virtual assets by users, the courts have generally required the game operators to provide well-developed securities systems to protect such virtual assets owned by users and have required some game operators to return the virtual items or be liable for the loss and damage incurred therefrom if the online game operators have been determined to be in default or held liable for infringement of users’ rights. Concerns about the use of personal data in compliance with PRC law could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Pursuant to the applicable PRC laws and regulations concerning the use and sharing of personal data, our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities are required to keep our users’ personal information confidential and are prohibited from disclosing such information to any third parties without the users’ consent. We apply strict management and protection to any information provided by users, and under our privacy policy, without our users’ prior consent, we will not provide any of our users’ personal information to any unrelated third party. In December 2012 and July 2013, new laws and regulations were issued by the standing committee of the PRC National People’s Congress and the MIIT to enhance the legal protection of information security and privacy on the Internet. The laws and regulations also require Internet operators to take measures to ensure confidentiality of information of users. While we strive to comply with our privacy guidelines as well as all applicable data protection laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, and could damage our reputation. User and regulatory attitudes towards privacy are evolving, and future regulatory or user concerns about the extent to which personal information is shared with merchants or others may adversely affect our ability to share certain data with merchants, which may limit certain methods of targeted marketing. Concerns about the security of personal data could also lead to a decline in general Internet usage, which could lead to lower user traffic on our website. A significant reduction in user traffic could lead to lower revenues from paying users, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mobile game operations may be adversely affected by implementation of new regulations related to the PRC government’s anti-fatigue policies. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. Our online mobile games may be subject to these policies. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued a notice, or the Anti-Fatigue Notice, requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor users by half when those users reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game users in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. The anti-fatigue system allows game operators to identify which users are minors. These restrictions could limit our ability to increase our business among minors. Furthermore, if these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult users in the future, our business could be materially and adversely affected. On July 1, 2011, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education, the MIIT and five others, jointly promulgated a further notice to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and real-name registration, entitled the Notice on Initializing the Verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Online Games, or the Real-name Registration Notice, which took effect on October 1, 2011. The Real-name Registration Notice’s main focus is to prevent minors from using an adult’s ID to play Internet games. Accordingly, the notice provides more stringent punishment for online game operators for not implementing the anti-fatigue and real name registration measures properly and effectively. The most severe punishment contemplated by the Real-name Registration Notice requires the termination of the operation of the online game if it is found to be in violation of the Anti-Fatigue Notice, the Parental Guardianship Project Circular, or the Real-name Registration Notice. The Real-name Registration Notice further increases our operational risks, as we will be required to spend more resources on real-name verification and anti-fatigue systems, which will lead to an increase in operation costs. In addition, the amount of time that minors will be able to spend playing online games such as ours will be further limited, which can be expected to lead to a reduction in our revenues. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of the Real-name Registration Notice, we may be required to suspend or discontinue our online game operations. 29 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our applications. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. The PRC government prohibits information that it believes to be in violations of PRC laws from being distributed through the Internet. The MIIT, the MOC and other competent government authorities have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the Internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of China, or compromise state security or secrets. If any of the games we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not be able to obtain the necessary government approval to continue such offerings and/or could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our licenses for operating mobile games, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. We may be required to delete content that violates PRC laws and report content that we suspect may violate PRC laws, which may reduce our user base, the amount of time our games are played or the purchases of virtual items in our games. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our games or offering other services in China. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could negatively impact China’s overall economic growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects depend significantly on economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past few decades, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and economic sectors. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Between late 2003 and 2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the PBOC’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, which slowed the growth of credit. In 2008 and 2009, however, in response to the global financial crisis, the PRC government loosened such requirements. Any actions and policies adopted by the PRC government or any prolonged slowdown in China’s economy, in particular the mobile applications industry, could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our users may decrease spending on our offerings, while we may have difficulty expanding our user base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing users. We may rely on dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiary to make payments to us could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. As an offshore holding company, we may rely principally on dividends from our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, dividends payments and other distributions to our shareholders, and to service any debt that we may incur and pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, PRC regulations permit our subsidiary to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries is required each year to set aside at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits (as determined under PRC accounting standards) into its statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of that reserve reaches 50% of such entity’s registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiary to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 30 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans to and direct investments in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of any offering to make loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiary, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. We may transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries or finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of shareholder’s loans or capital contributions upon completion of an offering. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the amount of our investments in such subsidiary, and shall be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries shall be approved by the MOFCOM or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. On March 30, 2015, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on Reforming the Management Approach Regarding the Foreign Exchange Capital Settlement of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular No. 19, which took effect and replaced the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular No. 142 and the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning the Pilot Reform of the Administration of the Conversion of Foreign Equity Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises in Certain Areas or SAFE Circular No. 36 from June 1, 2015. SAFE Circular No.19 expands a pilot reform of the administration of the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of foreign-invested enterprises nationwide and removes certain restrictions previously imposed on foreign-invested enterprises under SAFE Circular No. 142. Although under SAFE Circular No. 19, foreign-invested enterprises are allowed to freely convert their capital from foreign currencies into Renminbi and use the converted Renminbi for equity investments in the PRC, other restrictions on the foreign-invested enterprises’ use of the converted Renmibi under SAFE Circular No. 142 will continue to apply, such as restrictions on use of converted Renminbi for purposes beyond the business scope or for advancing Renminbi entrusted loans. The applicable foreign exchange circulars and rules may significantly limit our ability to use Renminbi converted from net proceeds from an offering to fund the establishment of new PRC subsidiaries, to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, to provide additional funding to our consolidated affiliated entities or to establish new consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC, PRC subsidiaries which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies, among other things. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decades-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar, and the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. The PRC government has allowed the RMB to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, and it has appreciated more than 10% since June 2010, although there have been periods when the U.S. dollar appreciated against the Renminbi. In April 2012, the trading band has been widened to 1%, and in March 2014 it was further widened to 2%, which allows the Renminbi to fluctuate against the U.S. dollar by up to 2% above or below the central parity rate published by the PBOC. In August 2015, the PBOC changed the way it calculates the mid-point price of Renminbi against U.S. dollar, requiring the market-makers who submit for the PBOC’s reference rates to consider the previous day’s closing spot rate, foreign-exchange demand and supply as well as changes in major currency rates. This change, and other changes such as widening the trading band that may be implemented, may increase volatility in the value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies. It remains difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. In addition, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further fluctuation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. 31 Table of Contents Significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material and adverse effect on your investment. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this initial public offering into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of paying dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to U.S. dollars would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms regardless of any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into a foreign currency. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company primarily relies on dividend payments from our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries in China, Chuangmeng Wuxian, to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, Chuangmeng Wuxian may pay dividends in a foreign currency to us without pre-approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with competent government authorities is required where the Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. With the prior approval from SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiaries may be used to pay off debt owed to entities outside China in a currency other than Renminbi. The PRC government may at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of the ADSs. Uncertainties and changes in the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our business primarily through our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, and forms of foreign investment (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint ventures) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements, including those governing PRC tax matters, are relatively new and amended frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement often raise uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violations of these policies and rules until the violations have occurred. Furthermore, the PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretions in interpreting and implementing or enforcing statutory rules and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we may enjoy in the PRC versus other more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may affect our judgment on the relevance of legal requirements and our decisions on the measures and actions to be taken to fully comply therewith, and may affect our ability to enforce our contractual or tort rights. Such uncertainties may result in substantial operating expenses and costs, and any litigation in China may result in diversion of resources and management’s attention, and therefore materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations We cannot predict future developments in the PRC legal system. We may be required to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our operations, which we may not be able to obtain. Our inability to obtain such permits or authorizations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry, including the foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the Internet industry. These Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. With regard to the mobile game industry in China, various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the SAIC, the MOC, the SAPPRFT, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and the mobile game industries. There exist inconsistencies and ambiguities in the regulations promulgated by different government authorities. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide mobile game services. As a result, it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations. Risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of Internet businesses include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) new laws, regulations or policies may be promulgated or announced that will regulate Internet activities, including mobile game businesses. If these new laws, regulations or policies are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations after they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties and our business operations could be disrupted; (2) there are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet industry in China, including evolving licensing requirements. This means that permits, licenses or operations of some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain or renew permits or licenses that applicable regulators may deem necessary for our operations. If we fail to maintain or obtain the required permits or licenses, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and discontinuation of, or restriction on, our operations. Any penalty may disrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; (3) the interpretation and application of existing or future PRC laws, regulations and policies relating to the Internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses required under any existing or new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to be in violation of existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of Internet businesses. If current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted in such a way as to render our ownership structure and/or business operations illegal or non-compliant, our business could be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. The approval of the CSRC may have been required in connection with the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Pursuant to the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, which became effective in September 2006, and were amended in June 2009, an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for purposes of seeking overseas listing of the interest in PRC companies via acquisition and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the CSRC’s approval prior to listing and trading of the SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On December 14, 2006, the CSRC published procedures for SPVs to obtain approval of overseas listings. The procedures include filing documents with the CSRC and take several months to complete. The application of this new PRC regulation remains unclear. While the application of the New M&A Rules remains unclear, we believe, based on the advice of our PRC legal counsel that CSRC’s approval is not required given the fact that (i) Chuangmeng Wuxian was incorporated as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise by means of direct investment, rather than by acquisition of the equity interests or assets of a PRC domestic company owned by PRC companies or individuals as defined in the New M&A Rules, and (ii) no provision in the New M&A Rules explicitly classifies the contractual arrangements among Chuangmeng Wuxian, each of Shenzhen Mengyu, Shenzhen iDreamSky and Beijing Chuangmeng and their respective shareholders as a type of transaction subject to the New M&A Rules. However, our PRC legal counsel further advised us that since there has been no official interpretation or clarification of the New M&A Rules, there remains some uncertainty as to how the New M&A Rules will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering and the opinions summarized above are subject to any new laws and regulations or further implementations and interpretations of competent government authorities in any form relating to the New M&A Rules. However, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities, including the CSRC, will reach the same conclusion as our PRC legal counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC government authorities determine that prior CSRC approval is required, any future registered offering will be delayed until we obtain the approval from the CSRC, which may take several months or longer. If a prior approval from the CSRC is required but not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory authorities. 33 Table of Contents These regulatory authorities may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from future offerings into the PRC, or take other actions that could materially and adversely affect our business or the trading price of the ADSs. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory authorities may also require us, or make it advisable for us, to halt an offering before settlement and delivery of the ADSs offered. Consequently, if you engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, you do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. A failure by the beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC residents to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and subject us to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Residents’ Investment and Financing and Round-Trip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 37, effective on July 4, 2014, and its appendixes, that require PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular No. 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular No. 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the SPV, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a SPV fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the SPV may be restricted in their ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. On February 13, 2015, SAFE promulgated the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Further Simplifying and Improving Policies for the Foreign Exchange Administration of Direct Investment, or SAFE Circular No. 13, which took effect on June 1, 2015. According to SAFE Circular No. 13, the procedures of foreign exchange registration and amendment to such registration under SAFE Circular No. 37 are simplified, and PRC residents shall register their direct establishment or indirect control of a SPV and any amendment to such registration with local banks instead of local SAFE branches. These regulations apply to our direct and indirect shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions or share transfers that we make in the future if our shares are issued to PRC residents. We have requested PRC residents who we know currently hold direct or indirect interests in our company to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Circular No. 37, SAFE Circular No. 13 and other related rules. To the best of our knowledge, certain of our shareholders who are PRC residents are still preparing to file with local banks for SAFE registration and/or amendment in connection with their overseas investment and shareholding in our company according to SAFE Circular No. 37 and SAFE Circular No. 13. However, in practice, different local banks may have different procedures on the application and implementation of SAFE regulations, and since SAFE Circular No. 37 and SAFE Circular No. 13 were recently issued, there remains uncertainty with respect to its implementation. Therefore, we cannot assure you that these individuals or any other direct or indirect shareholders or beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents will be able to successfully complete the registration or update the registration of their direct and indirect equity interest as required. If they fail to make or update the registration, our PRC subsidiaries could be subject to fines and legal penalties, and SAFE could restrict our cross-border investment activities and our foreign exchange activities, including restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain loans denominated in foreign currencies from, our company, or preventing us from paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the registration requirements for employee share option plans may subject our PRC equity incentive plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular of the SAFE on Relevant Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals’ Participating in the Share Incentive Schemes of Overseas-Listed Companies, or SAFE Circular No. 7, to replace the previous Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Offshore Listed Companies issued by SAFE in March 2007. SAFE Circular No. 7 regulates foreign exchange matters associated with employee stock option incentives or similar incentives permitted under applicable laws and regulations granted to PRC residents by companies whose shares are listed on offshore stock exchanges. In accordance with SAFE Circular No. 7, all PRC residents who participate in share incentive plans of an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through the PRC subsidiaries of the overseas publicly-listed company, to jointly entrust a PRC agent to handle foreign exchange registration with SAFE or its local office and complete procedures relating to the share incentive schemes such as opening accounts and capital transfers. PRC residents include PRC nationals or foreign citizens having been consecutively residing in PRC for not less than one year, acting as directors, supervisors, senior management personnel or other employees of PRC companies affiliated with such offshore listed company. A PRC agent can be one of the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore listed company participating in the share incentive scheme or another PRC institution qualified for asset trusteeship s as designated by the PRC subsidiaries and in accordance with PRC laws. The foreign exchange proceeds received by the PRC residents from sale of shares under share incentive plans granted by offshore listed companies must be remitted to bank accounts in China opened by the PRC agents. Further, a Notice Concerning Individual Income Tax on Earnings from Employee Stock Options, jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, provides that domestic companies that implement employee share option programs must file the employee share option plans and other relevant documents with local tax authorities having jurisdiction over the companies before implementing such plans, and must file share option exercise notices and other relevant documents with local tax authorities before their employees exercise any share options. We and our PRC employees who have been granted restricted shares or exercised share options granted under our share incentive plans are subject to these regulations. We and our PRC optionees have not completed the relevant foreign exchange registration procedures in accordance with SAFE Circular No. 7. We plan to complete, and advise our employees to complete, these procedures in connection with our share incentive plans. However, we cannot assure you that registration procedures with SAFE or its local counterparts in full compliance with SAFE Circular No. 7 will be completed on a timely basis, if at all. The failure to complete these procedures may subject us or our PRC employees holding restricted shares or share options under our share incentive plans to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and is subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on its global income. The implementation rules further define the term “de facto management bodies” as establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting and properties of an enterprise. The SAT issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular No. 82, which sets out certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular No. 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular No. 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, PRC enterprise groups or by PRC or foreign individuals. As a result, we cannot assure you that the SAT will not implement Circular No. 82 or amend the rules in the future to the effect that such rules will apply to us or our overseas subsidiary. Therefore, although we currently take the position that we and our overseas subsidiary are not PRC resident enterprises, there is no assurance that we or our overseas subsidiary will not be so treated. The SAT issued the Administrative Measures on Enterprise Income Tax of Foreign-Incorporated Chinese-Controlled Resident Enterprises (Trial) on July 27, 2011, which took effect from September 1, 2011. According to these measures, in the event that the PRC authorities subsequently determine that we should be treated as a resident enterprise and decide to issue the Resident Enterprise Recognition Letter for Foreign-Incorporated Chinese-Controlled Enterprises to us, we may be required to handle all tax matters according to the rules governing PRC resident enterprises for the enterprise income tax purpose from the year when such letter is issued to us. If the competent PRC tax authorities determine that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our global income. If we are considered a PRC resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income.” 35 Table of Contents If we are treated as a PRC tax resident enterprise, dividends paid by us to our investors and gains on the sale of our shares may be subject to PRC withholding tax. Under the New EIT Law and related implementation regulations, PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends from PRC source paid to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” that do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or that have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business. In addition, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC unless an applicable treaty provides otherwise. Individual non-PRC investors may be subject to such PRC taxes on dividends and gains of a rate of 20% unless an applicable treaty provides otherwise. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to such PRC tax. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our Class A ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Any change in the tax treatment we currently enjoy in the PRC may materially and adversely impact our net income. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and is governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules, both of which came into effect on January 1, 2008, impose a statutory rate of 25% on PRC enterprises. However, the New EIT Law also permits enterprises to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, under which enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law that were granted tax holidays under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their tax holidays until their expiration. Under the New EIT Law, its implementation regulations and other relevant rules, newly established software enterprises such as Shenzhen iDreamSky may be entitled to a two-year exemption followed by a three-year 50% enterprise income tax rate reduction from its first profit-making year. Shenzhen iDreamSky qualifies as a newly established software enterprise and is entitled to such preferential tax treatments with the relevant PRC tax authority. Preferential tax treatments and incentives granted to us by PRC governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. While the PRC enterprise income tax is generally imposed based on actual taxable income, some of our subsidiaries pay enterprise income tax based on a deemed profit calculation. We cannot assure you that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and discontinue any of our current tax treatments, potentially with retroactive effect. The discontinuation of any of our current tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations and adversely impact our net income. The New EIT Law will affect tax exemptions on dividends to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary and we may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits under the relevant tax treaty. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our business through our PRC subsidiaries and we derive all of our income from it. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such shareholders’ jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a preferential arrangement. 36 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Notice of the SAT on Issuing the Table of Tax Rates on Dividends in Treatises, or Notice 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008, the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, such withholding tax may be lowered to 5% if the PRC enterprise is at least 25% directly held by a Hong Kong enterprise. In October 2009, the SAT further issued the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the “Beneficial Owners” in Tax Treaties, or Circular No. 601. According to Circular No. 601, non-resident enterprises that cannot provide valid supporting documents as “beneficial owners,” who are generally individuals, companies or other organizations which are normally engaged in substantive operations, may not be approved to enjoy tax treaty benefits. These rules also set forth certain criteria for determining whether, for treaty purposes, a person is a “beneficial owner.” Specifically, they expressly exclude a “conduit company” from qualifying as a “beneficial owner” if it is established for the purposes of avoiding or reducing tax obligations or transferring or accumulating profits and not engaged in substantive operations such as manufacturing, sales or management. As a result, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a reduced withholding tax at a rate of 5% only if our Hong Kong subsidiary is determined to be a Hong Kong tax resident and is considered to be a “beneficial owner” that is generally engaged in substantive business activities and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Otherwise, we may not be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% under the tax arrangement and may therefore be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% with respect to dividends to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary. Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. The SAT and its local counterparts have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise by promulgating and implementing the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or SAT Circular No. 59, and the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular No. 698. Both SAT Circular No. 59 and SAT Circular No. 698 became retroactively effective on January 1, 2008. Under SAT Circular No. 698, except for the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC “resident enterprise” indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, if the Indirect Transfer is considered as an abusive use of company structure without reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular No. 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. On February 3, 2015, the SAT issued an Announcement of the State Administration of Taxation on Several Issues concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on the Indirect Transfers of Properties by Non-Resident Enterprises, or Public Notice 7, to supersede the existing tax rules in relation to the Indirect Transfer, while the other provisions of SAT Circular No. 698 remain in force. Public Notice 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to capture not only Indirect Transfer as set forth under SAT Circular No. 698 but also transactions involving the transfer of real property in China and assets of an establishment or a place in the PRC by a foreign company through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. Public Notice 7 also addresses the term “transfer of the equity interest in a foreign intermediate holding company” widely. In addition, Public Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than SAT Circular No. 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and introduces safe harbor scenarios applicable to internal group restructurings. However, it also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee of the Indirect Transfer as they have to make self-assessment on whether the transaction should be subject to PRC tax and to file or withhold the PRC tax accordingly. There is little guidance and practical experience as to the application of SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7. Where non-resident investors were involved in our private equity financing, if such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose, we and our non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7 or to establish that we should not be taxed under SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or the non-resident investors’ investments in us. 37 Table of Contents The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under SAT Circular No. 59, SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. We may pursue acquisitions in the future that may involve complex corporate structures. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under SAT Circular No. 59 or SAT Circular No. 698 and Public Notice 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The enforcement of labor contract law and increase in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. China adopted a labor contract law and its implementation rules effective on January 1, 2008 and September 18, 2008, respectively. The labor contract law and its implementation rules impose more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among others, minimum wages, severance payment upon permitted termination of the employment by an employer and non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation period as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed term employment contract. Due to the limited period of effectiveness of the labor contract law and its implementation rules, and the lack of clarity with respect to their implementation, potential penalties and fines, it is uncertain how they will impact our current employment policies and practices. Our employment policies and practices may violate the labor contract law or its implementation rules and we may be subject to related penalties, fines or legal fees. Compliance with the labor contract law and its implementation rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the labor contract law and its implementation rules may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, PRC companies are subject to various laws and regulations regarding social insurance and housing funds, under which our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates are required to pay employees’ pension contributions, housing funds, medical insurance premiums and other welfare-oriented payments. Shenzhen iDreamSky, Shenzhen Mengyu and one of their subsidiaries have not fully contributed social insurance premiums and housing funds for their employees in strict compliance with applicable PRC laws. As such, they may be ordered to compensate the cumulative amount of the under-contributed social insurance premiums and housing fund contributions and be subject to administrative penalties, including fines. In the event that we fail to comply with the social insurance and housing funds contribution requirements, we may be subject to administrative penalties, and our business and reputation may be adversely affected. Certain of our leased property interests may be defective and our right to lease the properties affected by such defects may be challenged, which could cause significant disruption to our business. Our primary office premises is located within the High and New Technology Industry Area of Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, or the High-Tech Area. According to the relevant administrative measures of the High-Tech Area, the properties located in the High-Tech Area can only be used by the owners of the properties for their own purposes. When an owner has used 50% or more of the construction area of its property located in the High-Tech Area for its own purposes, the owner may apply to the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area for an approval for leasing the remaining vacant property to third parties. If an owner leases its property within the High-Tech Area to third parties without obtaining the approval from the administrative authority, it may be ordered to terminate the lease and be subject to certain penalties. The landlord of our office premises has not obtained the approval from the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area prior to its leasing of the premises to us. Therefore, the landlord may be deemed by relevant authorities to lack the right to lease, and its lease agreements with us may not be valid or enforceable under PRC laws and regulations. Our lease agreements may also be challenged by relevant administrative authorities. Our landlord has filed an application to the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area for the approval for leasing the office premises to us, but it cannot be assured that the landlord will obtain the approval and the relevant administrative authorities will not challenge our lease agreements. Our business may be interrupted if we are required to relocate our office as a result of such defects, and we may incur substantial costs in connection with such relocation. 38 Table of Contents Further, according to the guidelines of the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area regarding the relocation within the High-Tech Area, a tenant must obtain relocation approval prior to the tenant’s entering into a lease agreement with a new landlord. We moved from our former office to our current office, both of which are located in the High-Tech Area in 2013. However, we did not obtain the approval from the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area for the relocation. We are unable to apply to the administrative authority of the High-Tech Area for approval of our relocation until our landlord has obtained approval for leasing us our current office premises. In addition, the lease agreements of our PRC operating entities have not been registered with competent governmental authority. Further, if a landlord has not obtained the consent from the administrative authority for lease of its property in the High-Tech Area, the lease agreement of a landlord cannot be registered with the competent government authority. According to PRC laws and regulations, the failure to register a lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, however, the landlord or the tenant may be subject to fines for such failure to register the lease agreements. We face risks of health epidemics and other disasters in China, which could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H1N1, or swine influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. Any adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from man-made or natural disasters, including wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events, all of which may disrupt our business. If any significant man-made or natural disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for the ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated since we listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on August 7, 2014, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$6.64 to US$25.95 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 28, 2016 was US$13.87 per ADS. The market price of the ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • changes in the general environment and the outlook of the mobile game industry and the broader telecommunications and Internet industries; • regulatory developments in the mobile game industry and the broader telecommunications and Internet industries; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts or the failure by securities research analysts to cover our ADSs after the listing; • negative market studies or reports; • the announcement of our proposed merger, and news regarding the development of the proposed merger, such as completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement; • changes in performance and valuation of our peer or comparable companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in our senior management; 39 Table of Contents • sales or anticipated sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and • fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. In addition, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities or incurrence of additional indebtedness could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. Historically, we have relied principally on external sources of financing to fund our operations and capital expansion needs. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity, equity-linked or debt securities or enter into a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Debt financing would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of the ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our Class A ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2015, we had 181,218,545 ordinary shares outstanding, including 99,772,425 Class A ordinary shares and 81,446,120 Class B ordinary shares. All ADSs are freely transferable by persons other than our “affiliates” without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares will be available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. We have a dual-class ordinary share structure such that our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. On a poll, holders of Class A ordinary shares will be entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares will be entitled to ten votes per share. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof, while Class A ordinary shares are not convertible to Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any sale, pledge, transfer, assignment or disposition of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes of shares, as of April 18, 2016, our existing holders of Class B ordinary shares collectively owned approximately 89.1% of the voting power of our outstanding shares and have considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. In particular, Michael Xiangyu Chen, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 31.6% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. 40 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our Class A ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You have a right to instruct the depositary how to exercise those voting rights. However, the depositary or its nominee may not successfully comply with your instructions or intentions. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. The depositary may give us a discretionary proxy to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not give voting instructions, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if we timely asked for your instructions but the depositary does not receive your instructions by the cutoff date it sets, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs as to all matters at the shareholders’ meeting unless: • we instructed the depositary we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition to the particular matter; or • the particular matter would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not give voting instructions, you cannot prevent the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except in the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of the ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations in transferring your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or a similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preferred shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be diluted. 41 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, operate all of our business from mainland China and Hong Kong and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and primarily conduct our operations through our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and mainland China and through our VIEs, Shenzhen Mengyu, Shenzhen iDreamSky and Beijing Chuangmeng, in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ADSs less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of this offering. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have gross revenues of US$1 billion or more, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of this offering, (iii) the date on which we have issued more than US$1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the previous three-year period, or (iv) when we become a “large accelerated filer,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ADSs and the trading price of our ADSs may be more volatile. 42 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring filings with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material non-public information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, press releases relating to material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC will be less extensive and less timely as compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by U.S. domestic issuers. As a Cayman Islands company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are subject to the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards. However, NASDAQ Global Select Market rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, may differ significantly from the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards. We follow our home country practices and rely on certain exemptions provided by the Nasdaq Global Select Market Rules to a foreign private issuer. For more details, see “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” As a result, you may not be afforded the same protections or information, which would be made available to you, were you investing in a U.S. domestic issuer. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company.” As a public company, we incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market, require changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal control over financial reporting. In addition, once we cease to be an “emerging growth company” as such term is defined in the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We expect these and other rules and regulations applicable to public companies to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly, but we cannot predict or estimate the additional costs or the timing of initial additional costs we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will not be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States Holders of the ADSs or ordinary shares. A non-United States corporation will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such United States Holder. We will be treated as owning a proportionate share of the assets and earning a proportionate share of the income of any other corporation in which we own, directly or indirectly, more than 25% by value of the stock. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we are treating our VIEs as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions, but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and as a result, we consolidate these entities’ operating results in our consolidated GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of any of our VIEs for United States federal income tax purposes, the composition of our income and assets would change and we likely would be treated as a PFIC for the taxable year ending on December 31, 2015 and any subsequent taxable year. Assuming that we are the owner of our VIEs and their subsidiaries for United States federal income tax purposes, based on the market value of our ADSs, the value of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending December 31, 2015, and we do not expect to be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2016. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not take a contrary position. 43 Table of Contents The classification of certain of our income as active or passive, and certain of our assets as producing active or passive income, and hence whether we expect to be or will become a PFIC, depends on the interpretation of certain United States Treasury Regulations, including regulations relating to royalty income and income from intangible assets, as well as certain IRS guidance relating to the classification of assets as producing active or passive income and certain IRS guidance relating to the distinction between services income and royalties for United States federal income tax purposes. Such regulations and guidance are potentially subject to different interpretations. If the percentage of our assets treated as producing passive income increases, we may be a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2015, or we may become a PFIC for the current or one or more future taxable years. Changes in the composition of our income and assets or value of our assets may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or any subsequent taxable year. The determination of whether we are or will become a PFIC for any taxable year may depend, in part, upon the value of our goodwill and other intangibles not reflected on our balance sheet (which may be determined based upon the market value of our ADSs or ordinary shares from time to time, which may be volatile) and may also be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets and the cash raised in offerings. Among other matters, if our market capitalization were to decrease below our current market capitalization, we may be or become a PFIC for the current or future taxable years because our cash and other passive assets would then comprise a greater percentage of our overall assets. Further, while we believe our classification methodology and valuation approach is reasonable, it is possible that the IRS may challenge our classification or valuation of our goodwill and other intangibles, which may result in our company being classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2015, or becoming classified as a PFIC for the current or one or more future taxable years. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Each United States Holder is urged to consult with its tax advisors regarding the impact of the PFIC rules on an investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares. 