D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report, including our Annual Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, included elsewhere in this annual report, before making any investment decision. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. We have described only those risks that we currently consider to be material and there may be additional risks that we do not currently consider to be material or of which we are not currently aware. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and the Markets in Which We Operate Difficult conditions in the global economy and in the global capital markets have caused, and may continue to cause, a sharp reduction in worldwide demand for our products and services and negatively affect our access to the levels of financing necessary for the successful refinancing of our project level indebtedness Our results of operations have been, and continue to be, materially affected by conditions in the global economy and in the global capital markets. Concerns over inflation, volatile oil and gas prices, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, sovereign debt and the instability of the euro have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and global capital markets going forward. These factors, combined with declining global business and consumer confidence and rising unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and have led to a recession and weak economic growth. Adverse events and continuing disruptions in the global economy and in the global capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility with certain factors, including volatile oil prices, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, inflation affecting the business and economic environment that could affect the economic and financial situation of our concession contracts counterparties and, ultimately, the profitability and growth of our business. Generalized or localized downturns or inflationary or deflationary pressures in our key geographical areas could also have a material adverse effect on the performance of our business. A significant portion of our business activity is concentrated in the United States, Mexico, Peru and Spain, and we have significant investments in Brazil. Consequently, we are significantly affected by the general economic conditions in these countries. Spain, for instance, has recently experienced negative economic conditions, including high unemployment and significant government debt which we believe could adversely affect our operations in the future. The effects on the European and global economy of any exit of one or more member states from the Eurozone, such as Greece or the United Kingdom, the dissolution of the euro and the possible redenomination of our financial instruments or other contractual obligations from euro into a different currency, or the perception that any of these events are imminent, are inherently difficult to predict and could give rise to operational disruptions or other risks of contagion to our business and have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, to the extent uncertainty regarding the European economic recovery continues to negatively affect government or regional budgets, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Various European political parties who question the recent austerity policies implemented in certain European countries have added political instability to the region. Additionally, political changes in key geographies, including the U.S., could affect our business. The global capital and credit markets continue to experience periods of extreme volatility and disruption. Continued disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the global capital and credit markets may limit our access to additional capital required to operate or grow our business, including our access to new equity capital to make further acquisitions or access to project debt which we may use to fund or refinance many of our projects, even in cases where such capital has already been committed. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to grow our business, or replace financing previously committed for a project that ceases to be available to it. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear a higher cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility or even require us to modify our dividend policy. In the event that we are required to replace previously committed financing to certain projects that subsequently becomes unavailable, we may have to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. 14 Table of Contents We have international operations and investments, including in emerging markets that could be subject to economic, social and political uncertainties We operate our activities in a range of international locations, including North America (the United States and Mexico), South America (Peru, Chile, Brazil and Uruguay), and EMEA (Spain, Algeria and South Africa), and we expect to expand our operations to certain countries within these core regions. Accordingly, we face a number of risks associated with operating and investing in different countries that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risks include, but are not limited to, adapting to the regulatory requirements of such countries, compliance with changes in laws and regulations applicable to foreign corporations, the uncertainty of judicial processes, and the absence, loss or non-renewal of favorable treaties, or similar agreements, with local authorities or political, social and economic instability, all of which can place disproportionate demands on our management, as well as significant demands on our operational and financial personnel and business. As a result, we can provide no assurance that our future international operations and investments will remain successful. A significant portion of our current and our potential future operations and investments are conducted in various emerging countries worldwide. Our activities and investments in these countries involve a number of risks that are more prevalent than in developed markets, such as economic and governmental instability, the possibility of significant amendments to, or changes in, the application of governmental regulations, the nationalization and expropriation of private property, payment collection difficulties, social problems, substantial fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, changes in the tax framework or the unpredictability of enforcement of contractual provisions, currency control measures, limits on the repatriation of funds and other unfavorable interventions or restrictions imposed by public authorities. Our U.S. dollar-denominated contracts in Algeria, Mexico and Peru are payable in local currency at the exchange rate of the payment date and our contract for Kaxu in South Africa is denominated and payable in South African rand. In the event of a rapid devaluation or implementation of exchange or currency controls, we may not be able to exchange the local currency for the agreed dollar amount, which could affect our cash available for distribution. Governments in Latin America and Africa frequently intervene in the economies of their respective countries and occasionally make significant changes in policy and regulations. Governmental actions in certain Latin American and African countries to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital or exchange controls and limits on imports. Decreases in government budgets, reductions in government subsidies and adverse changes in law may adversely affect our business and growth plan Poor economic conditions have affected, and continue to affect, government budgets and threaten the continuation of government subsidies such as regulated revenues, cash grants, U.S. federal income tax benefits and other similar subsidies that benefit our business, particularly with respect to renewable energy. Such conditions may also lead to adverse changes in laws. Policies supporting the development of renewable energy have had a significant effect on the growth of investments in renewable energy and they could change at any time. Government subsidies and incentives make the development of renewable projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing such projects or creating demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of renewable energy projects to project developers and the attractiveness of renewable energy to utilities, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. Such a loss or reduction could also reduce our willingness to pursue renewable energy projects due to higher operating costs or lower revenues. The reduction or elimination of subsidies or incentives or adverse changes in law could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our existing projects, and the lack of availability of new projects undertaken in reliance on the continuation of such subsidies could adversely affect our growth plan. 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to our cash dividend policy, we distribute all or substantially all of our cash available for distribution after cash interest payments through regular quarterly distributions and dividends, and our ability to grow and make acquisitions through cash on hand could be limited Our dividend policy is to distribute all or substantially all of our cash available for distribution, after cash interest payments and less reserves for the prudent conduct of our business, each quarter and to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including the issuance of debt and equity securities, borrowings under credit facilities to fund our acquisitions and potential growth capital expenditures. See “Item 8.A—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” We may be precluded from pursuing otherwise attractive acquisitions if the projected short-term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund the acquisition or investment, after giving effect to our available cash reserves. See “Item 8.A—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy—Our Ability to Grow Our Business and Dividend.” We intend to, whenever possible, make regular quarterly cash distributions to our shareholders in an amount equal to the cash available for distribution generated during a given quarter, less reserves for the prudent conduct of our business, and subject to the stated payout ratio during that given period. As such, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional equity securities in connection with any acquisitions or growth capital expenditures, the payment of dividends on these additional equity securities may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per share dividend. There are no limitations in our articles of association on our ability to issue equity securities, including securities ranking senior to our shares. The issuance of additional debt securities and/or the incurrence of additional bank borrowings or other debt by us or by intermediate subsidiaries or by our project-level subsidiaries to finance our growth strategy could result in increased interest expense and the imposition of additional or more restrictive covenants, which, in turn, may impact the cash distributions we receive. Our board of directors may change our dividend policy at any point in time or modify the dividend for specific quarters following prevailing conditions. We may not be able to identify and reach an agreement with a new sponsor similar to the ROFO Agreement with Abengoa We intend to enter into an agreement or agreements with a new sponsor or sponsors that own or develop renewable energy, electric transmission or water assets in the geographies in which we operate. Any such new sponsor or sponsors would be a source of assets in addition to Abengoa. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in identifying or reaching an agreement with a new sponsor or sponsors. We also cannot be certain that any agreement with a new sponsor will have terms similar to the ROFO Agreement with Abengoa and such terms may be less favorable to us. Even if we do reach an agreement with a new sponsor, we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire assets from any such sponsor in the future. If we are unable to identify and reach an agreement on favorable terms with new sponsors with suitable assets, and unable to consummate future acquisitions from any such sponsor, it may limit our ability to execute our growth strategy and limit our ability to increase the amount of dividends paid to holders of our shares. We may not be able to arrange the required or desired financing for accretive acquisitions Our ability to effectively consummate future acquisitions will also depend on our ability to arrange the required or desired financing for acquisitions or to refinance existing corporate debt. We may not have access to the capital markets to issue new equity or debt securities or sufficient availability under our credit facilities or have access to project-level financing on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. We have fully drawn all amounts available for borrowing under our Credit Facility. In the second half of 2015, our access to financing was curtailed by market conditions and other factors. This market trend may continue through 2016 and we may not be able to access the capital markets in a manner that would permit us to make an accretive acquisition. 16 Table of Contents An inability to obtain the required or desired financing could significantly limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions and effectuate our growth strategy. If financing is available, utilization of our credit facilities, debt securities or project-level financing for all or a portion of the purchase price of an acquisition, as applicable, could significantly increase our interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants, and reduce cash available for distribution. Similarly, the issuance of additional equity securities as consideration for acquisitions could cause significant shareholder dilution and reduce our per share cash available for distribution if the acquisitions are not sufficiently accretive. If we are unable to obtain financing necessary for accretive acquisitions, it will impede our ability to execute our growth strategy and limit our ability to increase the amount of dividends paid to holders of our shares. We may not be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of additional revenue-generating operational assets. This strategy depends on our ability to successfully identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities and consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. However, the number of acquisition opportunities may be limited. Our ability to acquire future renewable energy projects depends on the viability of renewable energy projects generally. These projects currently are largely contingent on public policy mechanisms including, among others, ITCs, cash grants, loan guarantees, accelerated depreciation, carbon trading plans, environmental tax credits and R&D incentives, as discussed in “Item 4.B—Regulation—Regulation in the United States—U.S. Federal Income Tax Incentives and other Federal Considerations for Renewable Energy Generation Facilities.” These mechanisms have been implemented at the U.S. federal and state levels and in certain other jurisdictions where our assets are located to support the development of renewable generation and other clean infrastructure technologies. The availability and continuation of public policy support mechanisms will drive a significant part of the economics and viability of our growth strategy and expansion into clean energy investments. Our ability to consummate future acquisitions may also depend on our ability to obtain any required government or regulatory approvals for such acquisitions, including, but not limited to, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, approval under Section 203 of the FPA in respect of acquisitions in the United States; the National Electric Energy Agency, Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica, or ANEEL, approval for the acquisition of transmission lines in Brazil; or any other approvals in the countries in which we may purchase assets in the future. We may also be required to seek authorizations, waivers or notifications from debt and/or equity financing providers at the project or holding company level; local or regional agencies or bodies; and/or development agencies or institutions that may have a contractual right to authorize a proposed acquisition. Additionally, acquisitions of companies and assets are subject to substantial risks, including the failure to identify material problems during due diligence (for which we may not be indemnified post-closing), the risk of over-paying for assets (or not making acquisitions on an accretive basis) and the ability to retain customers. Further, the integration and consolidation of acquisitions requires substantial human, financial and other resources and, ultimately, our acquisitions may divert management’s attention from our existing business concerns, disrupt our ongoing business or not be successfully integrated. There can be no assurances that any future acquisitions will perform as expected or that the returns from such acquisitions will support the financing utilized to acquire them or maintain them. As a result, the consummation of acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and ability to pay dividends to holders of our shares. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, we will compete with other companies for acquisition opportunities from third parties, which may increase our cost of making acquisitions or cause us to refrain from making acquisitions from third parties. Some of our competitors for acquisitions are much larger than us with substantially greater resources. These companies may be able to pay more for acquisitions due to cost of capital advantages, synergy potential or other drivers, and may be able to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of assets than our financial or human resources permit. If we are unable to identify and consummate future acquisitions, it will impede our ability to execute our growth strategy and limit our ability to increase the amount of dividends paid to holders of our shares. Finally, demand for renewable energy may be affected by the cost of other energy sources, including nuclear, coal, natural gas and oil. For example, low natural gas prices have led, in some instances, to increased natural gas consumption in lieu of other energy sources. To the extent renewable energy becomes less cost-competitive cheaper alternatives or otherwise, demand for renewable energy could decrease. Slow growth or a long-term reduction in the energy demand could cause a reduction in the development of renewable energy programs projects. Decreases in the prices of electricity could affect our ability to acquire accretive assets, as renewable energy developers may not be able to compete with providers of other energy sources at such lower prices. Our inability to acquire accretive assets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. We rely on certain regulations, subsidies and tax incentives that may be changed or legally challenged We rely in a significant part on environmental and other regulations of industrial and local government activities, including regulations mandating, among other things, reductions in carbon or other greenhouse gas emissions or use of energy from renewable sources. If the businesses to which such regulations relate were deregulated or if such regulations were materially changed or weakened, the profitability of our current and future projects could suffer, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, uncertainty regarding possible changes to any such regulations has adversely affected in the past, and may adversely affect in the future, our ability to refinance a project or to satisfy other financing needs. Subsidy regimes for renewable energy generation have been challenged in the past on constitutional and other grounds (including that such regimes constitute impermissible European Union state aid) in certain jurisdictions. In addition, certain loan guarantee programs in the United States, including those which have enabled the DOE to provide loan guarantees to support our Solana and Mojave projects, have been challenged on grounds of failure by the appropriate authorities to comply with applicable U.S. federal administrative and energy law. If all or part of the subsidy and incentive regimes for renewable energy generation in any jurisdiction in which we operate were found to be unlawful and, therefore, reduced or discontinued, we may be unable to compete effectively with conventional and other renewable forms of energy. The production from our renewable energy facilities is the subject of various tax relief measures or tax incentives in the jurisdictions in which they operate. These tax relief and tax incentive measures play an important role in the profitability of our projects. In the future, it is possible that some or all of these tax incentives will be suspended, curtailed, not renewed or revoked. The occurrence of any of the above could adversely affect the profitability of our current plants and our ability to refinance projects, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive governmental regulation in a number of different jurisdictions, and our inability to comply with existing regulations or requirements or changes in applicable regulations or requirements may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition We are subject to extensive regulation of our business in the United States, Mexico, Spain, Peru, South Africa and Brazil and in each of the other countries in which we operate. Such laws and regulations require licenses, permits and other approvals to be obtained in connection with the operations of our activities. See “Item 4.B—Regulation.” This regulatory framework imposes significant actual, day-to-day compliance burdens, costs and risks on us. In particular, the power plants and transmission lines that we own are subject to strict international, national, state and local regulations relating to their operation and expansion (including, among other things, leasing and use of land, and corresponding building permits, landscape conservation, noise regulation, environmental protection and environmental permits and electric transmission and distribution network congestion regulations). Non-compliance with such regulations could result in the revocation of permits, sanctions, fines or even criminal penalties. Compliance with regulatory requirements, which may in the future include increased exposure to capital markets regulations, may result in substantial costs to our operations that may not be recovered. In addition, we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or law enforcement initiatives. Changes in existing energy, environmental and administrative laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, margins and investments. Our business may also be affected by additional taxes imposed on our activities, reduction of regulated tariffs and other cuts or measures. Further, similar changes in laws and regulations could increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and even criminal penalties. In addition, changes in laws and regulations may, in certain cases, have retroactive effect and may cause the result of operations to be lower than expected. In particular, our activities in the energy sector are subject to regulations applicable to the economic regime of generation of electricity from renewable sources and to subsidies or public support in the benefit of the production of biofuels from renewable energy sources, which vary by jurisdiction, and are subject to modifications that may be more restrictive or unfavorable to us. Our business is subject to stringent environmental regulation We are subject to significant environmental regulation, which, among other things, requires us to obtain and maintain regulatory licenses, permits and other approvals and comply with the requirements of such licenses, permits and other approvals and perform environmental impact studies on changes to projects. There can be no assurance that: · public opposition will not result in delays, modifications to or cancellation of any project or license; · laws or regulations will not change or be interpreted in a manner that increases our costs of compliance or materially or adversely affects our operations or plants; or · governmental authorities will approve our environmental impact studies where required to implement proposed changes to operational projects. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulations, including those governing the environment. While we employ robust policies with regard to environmental regulation compliance, there are occasions where regulations are breached. On occasion, we have been found not to be in compliance with certain environmental regulations, and have incurred fines and penalties associated with such violations which, to date, have not been material in amount. We can give no assurance, however, that we will continue to be in compliance or avoid material fines, penalties, sanctions and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future. Violation of such regulations may give rise to significant liability, including fines, damages, fees and expenses, and site closures. Generally, relevant governmental authorities are empowered to clean up and remediate releases of environmental damage and to charge the costs of such remediation and clean-up to the owners or occupiers of the property, the persons responsible for the release and environmental damage, the producer of the contaminant and other parties, or to direct the responsible parties to take such action. These governmental authorities may also impose a tax or other liens on the responsible parties to secure the parties’ reimbursement obligations. 19 Table of Contents Environmental regulation has changed rapidly in recent years, and it is possible that we will be subject to even more stringent environmental standards in the future. For example, our activities are likely to be covered by increasingly strict national and international standards relating to climate change and related costs, and may be subject to potential risks associated with climate change, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot predict the amounts of any increased capital expenditures or any increases in operating costs or other expenses that we may incur to comply with applicable environmental, or other regulatory, requirements, or whether these costs can be passed on to our concession contract counterparties through price increases. Increases in the cost of energy and gas could increase our operating costs in some of our assets Some of our activities require some consumption of energy and gas, and we are vulnerable to material fluctuations in their prices. For example, our Spanish solar assets produced approximately 2% of their electricity using natural gas in 2015. Although our energy and gas purchase contracts generally include indexing mechanisms, we cannot guarantee that these mechanisms will cover all of the additional costs generated by an increase in energy and gas prices, particularly for long-term contracts, and some of the contracts entered into by us do not include any indexing provisions. Significant increases in the cost of energy or gas, or shortages of the supply of energy and/or gas, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Counterparties to our offtake agreements may not fulfill their obligations and, as our contracts expire, we may not be able to replace them with agreements on similar terms in light of increasing competition in the markets in which we operate A significant portion of the electric power we generate, the transmission capacity we have and our desalination capacity is sold under long-term offtake agreements with public utilities, industrial or commercial end-users or governmental entities, with a weighted average remaining duration of approximately 22 years as of December 31, 2015. If, for any reason, any of the purchasers of power or transmission capacity under these agreements are unable or unwilling to fulfill their related contractual obligations or if they refuse to accept delivery of power delivered thereunder or if they otherwise terminate such agreements prior to the expiration thereof, our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, to the extent any of our power or transmission capacity purchasers are, or are controlled by, governmental entities, our facilities may be subject to sovereign risk or legislative or other political action that may impair their contractual performance. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition and our electric generation assets encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers, in particular with respect to uncontracted output. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators for offtake agreements and this has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets characterized by excess supply above designated reserve margins. In light of these market conditions, we may not be able to replace an expiring or terminated agreement with an agreement on equivalent terms and conditions, including at prices that permit operation of the related facility on a profitable basis. In addition, we believe many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential suppliers, lenders and customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements than we will be able to. Adoption of technology more advanced than ours could reduce our competitors’ power production costs, resulting in their having a lower cost structure than is achievable with the technologies we currently employ and adversely affect our ability to compete for offtake agreement renewals. If we are unable to replace an expiring or terminated offtake agreement, the affected facility may temporarily or permanently cease operations. External events, such as a severe economic downturn, could also impair the ability of some counterparties to our offtake agreements and other customer agreements to pay for energy and/or other products and services received. 20 Table of Contents Our inability to enter into new or replacement offtake agreements or to compete successfully against current and future competitors in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Transactions with counterparties expose us to credit risk which we must effectively manage to mitigate the effect of counterparty default We are exposed to the credit risk profile of the counterparties to our long-term concession contracts, our suppliers and our financing providers, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we actively manage this credit risk through diversification, credit insurance and other measures, our risk management strategy may not be successful in limiting our exposure to credit risk. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be subject to increased finance expenses if we do not effectively manage our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of business, including the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Some of our indebtedness (including project-level indebtedness) bears interest at variable rates, generally linked to market benchmarks such as EURIBOR and LIBOR. Any increase in interest rates would increase our finance expenses relating to our variable rate indebtedness and increase the costs of refinancing our existing indebtedness and issuing new debt. See “Item 5.A—Operating Results—Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Interest Rates”. Although most of our long-term contracts are denominated in, indexed or hedged to U.S. dollars, we conduct our business and incur certain costs in the local currency of the countries in which we operate. In addition, the revenues, costs and debt of our solar assets in Spain are denominated in euros. As of date of this annual report, we have a Currency Swap Agreement with Abengoa, which provides for a fixed exchange rate for the distributions from Spanish assets. The revenues, costs and debt of Kaxu in South Africa are denominated in South African rand. As we continue expanding our business into existing markets such as South America and Europe, and into other new markets, such as Africa and the Middle East, we expect that an increasing percentage of our revenue and cost of sales will be denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. As a result, we will become subject to increasing currency translation risk, whereby changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we do business could result in foreign exchange losses. We seek to actively manage these risks by entering into interest rate options and swaps, which according to our policies, generally cover at least 75% of the outstanding project debt, to hedge against interest rate risk. In addition, we plan to use future currency sale and purchase contracts and foreign exchange rate swaps or caps to hedge against foreign exchange rate risk when our exposure to non-U.S. dollar denominated cash flows is significantly below our 90% target. If our risk management strategies are not successful in limiting our exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates or if Abengoa fails to comply with its obligations under the Currency Swap Agreement, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our competitive position could be adversely affected by changes in technology, prices, industry standards and other factors The markets in which our assets or projects operate change rapidly because of technological innovations and changes in prices, industry standards, product instructions, customer requirements and the economic environment. New technology or changes in industry and customer requirements may put pressure on the profitability of our existing projects by increasing the incentives of counterparties to our long-term contracts to seek new alternative projects or request higher service standards. Our performance under our concession contracts may be adversely affected by problems related to our reliance on third-party contractors and suppliers Our projects rely on the supply of services, equipment or software which we subcontract to Abengoa or other third-party suppliers in order to meet our contractual obligations under our contracted concessions. The delivery of products or services which are not in compliance with the requirements of the subcontract, or the late supply of products and services, can cause us to be in default under our contracts with our concession counterparties. To the extent we are not able to transfer all of the risk or be fully indemnified by Abengoa or other third-party contractors and suppliers, we may be subject to a claim by our customers as a result of a problem caused by a third party that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Supplier concentration may expose us to significant financial credit or performance risk We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers, which in some cases may be subsidiaries of Abengoa, for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel, equipment, technology and/or other services required for the operation of certain of our facilities. In addition, certain of our suppliers, including Abengoa and its subsidiaries, provide long-term warranties with respect to the performance of their products or services. If any of these suppliers cannot perform under their agreements with us, or satisfy their related warranty obligations, we will need to utilize the marketplace to provide or repair these products and services. There can be no assurance that the marketplace can provide these products and services as, when and where required. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to enter into replacement agreements to provide for fuel, equipment, technology and other required services, we would seek to purchase the related goods or services at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. We may also be required to make significant capital contributions to remove, replace or redesign equipment that cannot be supported or maintained by replacement suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, credit support terms and cash flows. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Consequently, the financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, our suppliers and vendors. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with acquisitions or investments As a part of our growth strategy, we intend to make certain acquisitions and/or financial investments, and we may take on additional equity and debt to pay for such acquisitions. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete all, or any, such transactions that we might contemplate in the future. To the extent we do, such transactions expose us to risks inherent in integrating acquired businesses and personnel, such as the inability to achieve projected cash flows; recognition of unexpected liabilities or costs; and regulatory complications arising from such transactions. Furthermore, the terms and conditions of financing for such acquisitions or financial investments could restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, particularly if we were to use debt financing. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we have made and may continue to make equity investments in certain strategic assets managed by or together with third parties, including governmental entities and private entities. In certain cases, we may only have partial or joint control over a particular asset. For example, we currently hold only economic rights in respect of our Brazilian investment through ACBH, which economic rights provide us with the right to receive a preferred dividend of $18.4 million annually, but we do not have control over ACBH. On January 29, 2016, Abengoa informed us that several indirect subsidiaries of Abengoa in Brazil, including ACBH, have initiated an insolvency procedure under Brazilian law (“reorganizaçao judiciaria”) as a “Pedido de processamento conjunto”, which means the substantial consolidation of the three main subsidiaries of Abengoa in Brazil, including ACBH. Given that this process will likely negatively affect the value of our preferred equity investment and considering the high degree of uncertainty on its final outcome, we have recorded an impairment of this preferred equity investment. In addition, we hold a minority stake in Honaine and do not have control over the operation of that asset. Investments in assets over which we have no, partial or joint control are subject to the risk that the other shareholders of the assets, who may have different business or investment strategies than us or with whom we may have a disagreement or dispute, may have the ability to independently make or block business, financial or management decisions, such as the decision to distribute dividends or appoint members of management, which may be crucial to the success of the project or our investment in the project, or otherwise implement initiatives which may be contrary to our interests. Additionally, the approval of other shareholders or partners may be required to sell, pledge, transfer, assign or otherwise convey our interest in such assets, or for us to acquire Abengoa’s interests in such assets as an initial matter. Alternatively, other shareholders may have rights of first refusal or rights of first offer in the event of a proposed sale or transfer of our interests in such assets or in the event of our acquisition of an interest in new assets pursuant to the ROFO Agreement or with third parties. These restrictions may limit the price or interest level for our interests in such assets, in the event we want to sell such interests. Finally, our partners in existing or future projects may be unable, or unwilling, to fulfill their obligations under the relevant shareholder agreements or may experience financial or other difficulties that may adversely affect our investment in a particular joint venture. In certain of our joint ventures, we may also be reliant on the particular expertise of our partners and, as a result, any failure to perform our obligations in a diligent manner could also adversely affect the joint venture. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. There are risks relating to future acquisitions and investments Our board of directors may approve acquisitions and investments at any time. This could result in our making acquisitions or investments in assets that are located in different jurisdictions and are different from, and possibly riskier than, those jurisdictions that are described in this annual report. These changes could adversely affect the market price of our shares or our ability to make distributions to shareholders. The facilities we operate are, in some cases, dangerous workplaces at which hazardous materials are handled. If we fail to maintain safe work environments, we can be exposed to significant financial losses, as well as civil and criminal liabilities The facilities we operate often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, manufacturing or industrial processes, heat or liquids stored under pressure and highly regulated materials. On most projects and at most facilities, we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safe practices and safety procedures, which are also applicable to on-site subcontractors such as our O&M services providers. If we fail to design and implement such practices and procedures or if the practices and procedures we implement are ineffective or if our O&M service providers or other suppliers do not follow them, our employees and others may become injured and our and others’ property may become damaged. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our customers or the operation of a facility, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our projects and the operation of our facilities can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety and environmental work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability. In addition, we may incur liability based on allegations of illness or disease resulting from exposure of employees or other persons to hazardous materials that we handle or are present in our workplaces. Our business may be adversely affected by catastrophes, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, climate change, unexpected geological or other physical conditions, or criminal or terrorist acts at one or more of our plants, facilities and electric transmission lines If one or more of our plants, facilities or electric transmission lines were to be subject in the future to fire, flood, extreme weather conditions (including wind), earthquakes or other natural disaster, adverse weather conditions, drought, terrorism, power loss or other catastrophe, or if unexpected geological or other adverse physical conditions were to develop at any of our plants, facilities or electric transmission lines, we may not be able to carry out our business activities at that location or such operations could be significantly reduced. For example, drought may affect the cooling capacity of our concentrating solar power projects. Any of these circumstances could result in lost revenue at these sites during the period of disruption and costly remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, despite security measures taken by us, it is possible that our sites and assets could be affected by criminal or terrorist acts. Any such acts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover relevant risks and the cost of our insurance may increase Our business is exposed to the inherent risks in the markets in which we operate. Although we seek to obtain appropriate insurance coverage in relation to the principal risks associated with our business, we cannot guarantee that such insurance coverage is, or will be, sufficient to cover all of the possible losses we may face in the future. If we were to incur a serious uninsured loss or a loss that significantly exceeded the coverage limits established in our insurance policies, the resulting costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to review by our insurers. If premiums were to increase in the future or certain types of insurance coverage were to become unavailable, we might not be able to maintain insurance coverage comparable to those that are currently in effect at comparable cost, or at all. If we were unable to pass any increase in insurance premiums on to our customers, such additional costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation and other legal proceedings We are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise. The results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We cannot guarantee that the results of current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or operations, nor can we guarantee that we will not incur losses in connection with current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions that exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or that exceed any available insurance coverage, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Legal Proceedings.” 24 Table of Contents We are subject to reputational risk, and our reputation is closely related to that of Abengoa We rely on our reputation to do business, obtain financing, hire and retain employees and attract investors, one or more of which could be adversely affected if our reputation were damaged. Harm to our reputation could arise from real or perceived faulty or obsolete technology, failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, difficulties in meeting contractual obligations or standards of quality and service, ethical issues, money laundering and insolvency, among others. Our reputation is closely related to Abengoa’s reputation. The public image and reputation of Abengoa have suffered as a result of its financial condition and its filing under article 5 bis of the Spanish Insolvency Law discussed below. We have been adversely affected due to our relationship with Abengoa. Any further developments of Abengoa with respect to its financial condition, operating performance or any failure by Abengoa to satisfactorily resolve the proceedings discussed below, could further harm our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 27, 2015, Abengoa reported that it filed a communication pursuant to article 5 bis of the Spanish Insolvency Law 22/2003 with the Mercantile Court of Seville nº 2. The filing by Abengoa was intended to initiate a process to try to reach an agreement with its main financial creditors, aimed to ensure the right framework to carry out such negotiations and provide Abengoa with financial stability in the short and medium term. The Mercantile Court published a decree to admit the filing of the communication on December 15, 2015 and set a deadline of March 28, 2016 for Abengoa to reach an agreement with its main financial creditors. The filing under article 5 bis was intended to allow Abengoa to protect and preserve its value while it works on the design and development of an appropriate viability plan for its future. We may suffer further reputational harm if Abengoa is unable to successfully reach an agreement with its main financial creditors and design and implement a viability plan for its future. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees may adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our projects We depend on our experienced management team and the loss of one or more key executives may negatively affect our business. We also depend on our ability to retain and motivate key employees and attract qualified new employees. We may not be able to replace departing members of our management team or key employees. Integrating new executives into our management team and training new employees with no prior experience in our industry could prove disruptive to our projects, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. An inability to attract and retain sufficient technical and managerial personnel could limit our ability to effectively manage our projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Assets The concession agreements under which we conduct some of our operations are subject to revocation or termination Certain of our operations are conducted pursuant to contracted concessions granted by various governmental bodies. Generally, these contracted concessions give us rights to provide services for a limited period of time, subject to various governmental regulations. The governmental bodies or private clients responsible for regulating and monitoring these services often have broad powers to monitor our compliance with the applicable concession contracts and can require us to supply them with technical, administrative and financial information. Among other obligations, we may be required to comply with investment commitments and efficiency and safety standards established in the concession. Such commitments and standards may be amended in certain cases by the governmental bodies. Our failure to comply with the concession agreements or other regulatory requirements may result in contracted concessions being revoked, not being granted, upheld or renewed in our favor, or, if granted, upheld or renewed, may not be done on as favorable terms as currently applicable. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents In some of the markets in which we are present, or in which we may own assets in the future, political instability, economic crisis or social unrest may give rise to a change in policies regarding long-term contracted assets with private companies, like us, in strategic sectors such as power generation or electric transmission. Any such changes could lead to modifications of the economic terms of our concession contracts or, in extreme scenarios, the nationalization of our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Revenue from our contracted assets and concessions is significantly dependent on regulated tariffs or other long-term fixed rate arrangements that restrict our ability to increase revenue from these operations The revenue that we generate from our contracted concessions is significantly dependent on regulated tariffs or other long-term fixed rate arrangements. Under most of our concession agreements, a tariff structure is established in such agreements, and we have limited or no possibility to independently raise tariffs beyond the established rates and indexation or adjustment mechanisms. Similarly, under a long-term PPA, we are required to deliver power at a fixed rate for the contract period, with limited escalation rights. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our tariffs or rates as a result of fluctuations in prices of raw materials, exchange rates, labor and subcontractor costs during the operating phase of these projects, or any other variations in the conditions of specific jurisdictions in which our concession-type infrastructure projects are located, which may reduce our revenue. Moreover, in some cases, if we fail to comply with certain pre-established conditions, the government or customer (as applicable) may reduce the tariffs or rates payable to us. In addition, during the life of a concession, the relevant government authority may unilaterally impose additional restrictions on our tariff rates, subject to the regulatory frameworks applicable in each jurisdiction. Governments may also postpone annual tariff increases until a new tariff structure is approved without compensating us for lost revenue. Furthermore, changes in laws and regulations may, in certain cases, have retroactive effect and expose us to additional compliance costs or interfere with our existing financial and business planning. In Spain, the definitions and values of all payment criteria may be changed at the end of each regulatory period. The Spanish government modified regulations applicable to renewable energy assets, including solar power, in 2013 and 2012 which as a result, lowered yearly revenues of such assets. The first regulatory period commenced on July 14, 2013, the date on which Royal Decree-law 9/2013 came into effect, and will end on December 31, 2019. In the case that any one or more of these events occur, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Revenue from our renewable energy and conventional power facilities is partially exposed to market electricity prices In addition to regulated incentives, revenue and operating costs from certain of our projects depend to a limited extent on market prices for sales of electricity. Market prices may be volatile and are affected by various factors, including the cost of raw materials, user demand, and if applicable, the price of greenhouse gas emission rights. In several of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are exposed to remuneration schemes which contain both regulated incentive and market price components. In such jurisdictions, the regulated incentive component may not compensate for fluctuations in the market price component, and, consequently, total remuneration may be volatile. There can be no assurance that market prices will remain at levels which enable us to maintain profit margins and desired rates of return on investment. A decline in market prices below anticipated levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Our solar and wind projects will be negatively affected if there are adverse changes to national and international laws and policies that support renewable energy sources Recently, certain countries, such as the United States, a market that is one of our principal markets, have enacted policies of active support for renewable energy. These policies have included feed-in tariffs and renewable energy purchase obligations, mandatory quotas and/or portfolio standards imposed on utilities and certain tax incentives (such as the Investment Tax Credit in the United States). See “Item 4.B—Regulation—Regulation in the United States—U.S. Federal Income Tax Incentives and other Federal Considerations for Renewable Energy Generation Facilities—Section 1603 U.S. Treasury Grant Program.” Although support for renewable energy sources by governments and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate has historically been strong, and European authorities, along with the United States government, have reaffirmed their intention to continue such support, certain policies currently in place may expire, be suspended or be phased out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding or be subject to cancellation or non-renewal, particularly if the cost of renewable energy exceeds the cost of generation of energy from other means. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that such government support will be maintained in full, in part or at all. If the governments and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate were to further decrease or abandon their support for development of solar and wind energy due to, for example, competing funding priorities, political considerations or a desire to favor other energy sources, renewable or otherwise, the assets we plan to acquire in the future could become less profitable or cease to be economically viable. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our exchangeable preferred equity investment in ACBH is subject to inherent risks We own an exchangeable preferred equity investment in ACBH which gives us the right to receive during a five-year period since July 1, 2014 a preferred dividend of $18.4 million per year and thereafter the option for us to remain as preferred equity holder with the right to receive such dividend or exchange the preferred equity for ordinary shares of specific project companies owned by ACBH, yielding at least $18.4 million of recurrent dividends. We and Abengoa Concessions Investments Limited, the Abengoa subsidiary that holds our shares, entered into a deed pursuant to which certain subordination measures are implemented to protect our right to receive such preferred dividend in full. Our exchangeable preferred equity investment in ACBH is subject to certain inherent risks, including those described below. On January 29, 2016, Abengoa informed us that several indirect subsidiaries of Abengoa in Brazil, including ACBH, have initiated an insolvency procedure under Brazilian law (“reorganizaçao judiciaria”) as a “Pedido de processamento conjunto”, which means the substantial consolidation of the three main subsidiaries of Abengoa in Brazil, including ACBH. Given that this process will likely negatively affect the value of our preferred equity investment in ACBH and considering the high degree of uncertainty on its final outcome, we have recorded an impairment of this preferred equity investment. See note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Despite our economic rights in respect of our preferred equity investment in ACBH, we do not have control over ACBH, and investments in assets over which we have no control are subject to certain risks. See “Item 3.D—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and the Markets in Which We Operate—We may be adversely affected by risks associated with acquisitions or investments”. We cannot be certain that the annual payment of the $18.4 million dividend will be paid to us in any year. Payment of dividends following the initial five-year period by either ACBH or any project companies we acquire in exchange for the preferred equity investment, and the amount of such dividends, will depend, among other factors, on the completion of construction of certain of the projects, the performance of the projects, the extent of distributable profits in Brazilian reais for each relevant fiscal year and the outcome of the insolvency proceedings in Brazil mentioned above. 27 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we will be able to exchange the preferred equity investment for ordinary shares of project companies owned by ACBH following the initial five-year period if we elect to do so. Any exchange of shares would be subject to relevant approvals, including from regulatory bodies, financing banks or equity partners at the project level, which ACBH may fail to secure. Our right to exchange our preferred equity investment could be affected by the insolvency procedure initiated by Abengoa for its Brazilian subsidiaries, including ACBH. Furthermore, our right to exchange is exercisable in respect of project companies to be selected by ACBH and Abengoa at the time of the proposed exchange meeting in the aggregate specified dividend yield criteria, rather than specifically identified assets as of the date of this annual report. Consequently, we can give no assurance regarding the identity or the specific characteristics of these projects or whether we would elect to remain as preferred equity holder or exchange the preferred equity investment. Failure to receive the expected dividends from our exchangeable preferred equity investment in ACBH or any project companies we acquire in exchange for the preferred equity investment, as the case may be, may have a material adverse effect on our cash available for distribution, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lack of electric transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the electric transmission grid, and other systems constraints could significantly impact our ability to generate solar electricity power sales We depend on electric interconnection and transmission facilities owned and operated by others to deliver the wholesale power we will sell from our electric generation assets to our customers. A failure or delay in the operation or development of these interconnection or transmission facilities or a significant increase in the cost of the development of such facilities could result in the loss of revenues. Such failures or delays could limit the amount of power our operating facilities deliver or delay the completion of our construction projects, as the case may be. Additionally, such failures, delays or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If a region’s electric transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have a sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. Additionally, we cannot predict whether interconnection and transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. In addition, certain of our operating facilities’ generation of electricity may be curtailed without compensation due to transmission limitations or limitations on the electricity grid’s ability to accommodate intermittent electricity generating sources, reducing our revenues and impairing our ability to capitalize fully on a particular facility’s generating potential. Such curtailments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not own all of the land on which our renewable energy, conventional power or electric transmission assets are located, which could result in disruption to our operations We do not own all of the land on which our power generation or electric transmission assets are located and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of less desirable terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Although we have obtained rights to construct and operate these assets pursuant to related lease arrangements, our rights to conduct those activities are subject to certain exceptions, including the term of the lease arrangement. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, may adversely affect our ability to operate our power generation and electric transmission assets. 28 Table of Contents Certain of our facilities are newly constructed and may not perform as expected Our expectations regarding the operating performance of Solana, which reached COD in the fourth quarter of 2013, ATS and Quadra 2, which reached COD in the first quarter of 2014, Palmatir and Quadra 1, which reached COD in the second quarter of 2014, Mojave and Cadonal, which reached COD in the fourth quarter of 2014, Kaxu, which reached COD in the first quarter of 2015 and ATN2, which reached COD in the second quarter of 2015 and our other newly-constructed assets are based on assumptions, estimates and past experience with similar assets that Abengoa has developed and built, and without the benefit of a substantial operating history. Our projections regarding our ability to pay dividends to holders of our shares assume newly-constructed facilities perform to our expectations. However, the ability of these facilities to meet our performance expectations is subject to the risks inherent in newly-constructed power generation facilities and the construction of such facilities, including, but not limited to, degradation of equipment in excess of our expectations, system failures and outages. The failure of these facilities to perform as we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to holders of our shares. The generation of electric energy from renewable energy sources depends heavily on suitable meteorological conditions, and if solar or wind conditions are unfavorable, our electricity generation, and therefore revenue from our renewable energy generation facilities using our systems, may be substantially below our expectations The electricity produced and revenues generated by a renewable energy generation facility are highly dependent on suitable solar or wind conditions, as applicable, and associated weather conditions, which are beyond our control. Furthermore, components of our system, such as mirrors, absorber tubes or blades, could be damaged by severe weather. In addition, replacement and spare parts for key components may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. Unfavorable weather and atmospheric conditions could impair the effectiveness of our assets or reduce their output beneath their rated capacity or require shutdown of key equipment, impeding operation of our renewable assets and our ability to achieve forecasted revenues and cash flows. We base our investment decisions with respect to each renewable generation facility on the findings of related wind and solar studies conducted on-site prior to construction or based on historical conditions at existing facilities. However, actual climatic conditions at a facility site, particularly wind conditions, may not conform to the findings of these studies and therefore, our solar and wind energy facilities may not meet anticipated production levels or the rated capacity of our generation assets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by the disruption of the fuel supplies necessary to generate power at our conventional generation facilities Delivery of fossil fuels to fuel our conventional and some solar power generation facilities is dependent upon the infrastructure, including natural gas pipelines, available to serve each such generation facility, as well as upon the continuing financial viability of contractual counterparties. As a result, we are subject to the risks of disruptions or curtailments in the production of power at these generation facilities if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is a disruption in the relevant fuel delivery infrastructure. Maintenance, expansion and refurbishment of electric generation facilities involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power outages or reduced output Although the facilities in our portfolio are relatively new, they may require periodic upgrading and improvement in the future. Any unexpected operational or mechanical failure, including failure associated with breakdowns and forced outages, could reduce our facilities’ generating capacity below expected levels, reducing our revenues and jeopardizing our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at forecasted levels or at all. Degradation of the performance of our solar facilities above levels provided for in the related offtake agreements may also reduce our revenues. Unanticipated capital expenditures associated with maintaining, upgrading or repairing our facilities may also reduce profitability. 29 Table of Contents If we make any major modifications to our conventional or renewable power generation facilities or electric transmission lines, we may be required to comply with more stringent environmental regulations, which would likely result in substantial additional capital expenditures. We may also choose to repower, refurbish or upgrade our facilities based on our assessment that such activity will provide adequate financial returns. Such facilities require time for development and capital expenditures before commencement of commercial operations, and key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding construction costs, timing, available financing and future fuel and power prices. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Abengoa Abengoa filed for protection under article 5 bis of the Spanish Insolvency Laws and is working on a viability plan for its future and we cannot guarantee that they will be successful On November 27, 2015, Abengoa reported that it filed a communication pursuant to article 5 bis of the Spanish Insolvency Law 22/2003 with the Mercantile Court of Seville nº 2. The filing by Abengoa was intended to initiate a process to try to reach an agreement with its main financial creditors, aimed to ensure the right framework to carry out such negotiations and provide Abengoa with financial stability in the short and medium term. The Mercantile Court published a decree to admit the filing of the communication on December 15, 2015 and set a deadline of March 28, 2016 for Abengoa to reach an agreement with its main financial creditors. The filing under article 5 bis was intended to allow Abengoa to protect and preserve its value while it works on the design and development of an appropriate viability plan for its future. Abengoa reported that on January 25, 2016, the board of directors of Abengoa approved a viability plan that defined the structure of the future business activity of Abengoa. In accordance with this plan, Abengoa will negotiate a debt restructuring with its creditors as well as the necessary recourses with the objective of being able to continue its activity and operate in a competitive and sustainable manner in the future. The developments at Abengoa affect our project financing arrangements and our relationships with our creditors. The financing arrangements of some of our project subsidiaries (Solana, Mojave, Kaxu and Cadonal) contain cross-default provisions related to Abengoa. Defaults by Abengoa, subject to certain threshold amounts, could trigger defaults under such project financing arrangements. These cross-default provisions expire progressively over time, remaining in place until the termination of the obligations of Abengoa under such project financing arrangements. We are currently in discussions with our project finance lenders about developments at Abengoa. Although we do not expect the credit entities to use the cross-default provisions to request an acceleration of debt, the project companies did not have as of December 31, 2015, what International Accounting Standards define as an unconditional right to defer the settlement of the debt for at least twelve months after that date and therefore the debt has been presented as current in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, our Credit Facility does not include a cross-default provision related to Abengoa. It includes, however, a cross-default provision related to a default by our project subsidiaries in their financing arrangements, such that a payment default by one or more of our non-recourse subsidiaries representing more than 20% of the cash available for distribution distributed in the previous four fiscal quarters could trigger a default under our Credit Facility. Additionally, under the terms of our Credit Facility, we are required to comply with (i) a maintenance leverage ratio of 5.25:1.00 of our indebtedness at the holding level to our cash available for distribution on and after January 1, 2016, and prior to January 1, 2017, and (ii) an interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00 of cash available for distribution to debt service payments. A payment default in several of our project companies or restrictions in distributions from several of our project companies may trigger these covenants. If Abengoa is unsuccessful in its negotiations with creditors and executing a restructuring, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents Abengoa’s financial condition could affect its ability to meet its obligations under the Currency Swap Agreement and to maintain existing guarantees and letters of credit under the Financial Support Agreement We expect that Abengoa’s financial condition could affect its ability to comply with its obligations under the Currency Swap Agreement and Financial Support Agreement. Any failure by Abengoa to meet its obligations under such agreements could adversely affect our business or the operation of our facilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on Abengoa maintain existing guarantees and letters of credit in our favor under the Financial Support Agreement. If Abengoa were to fail to provide the requisite financial support, we may be unable to substitute those guarantees and letters of credit with a third party on comparable terms, without undue delay or at all. In addition, as disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, we have accounts receivable with certain subsidiaries of Abengoa. Inability of these subsidiaries to pay their obligations when due would have a negative impact in our cash position. Abengoa is our largest shareholder and exercises substantial influence over Atlantica Yield Abengoa currently beneficially owns and is entitled to vote approximately 41.86% of our ordinary shares. As a result of this ownership, Abengoa has a substantial influence on our affairs and its ownership interest and voting power constitute a significant percentage of the shares eligible to vote on any matter requiring the approval of our shareholders. Such matters include the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our articles of association and approval of mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares. There can be no assurance that the interests of Abengoa will coincide with the interests of the purchasers of our shares or that Abengoa will act in a manner that is in our best interests. We may be in breach of covenants in certain of our project financing arrangements if Abengoa’s ownership falls below 35% of our outstanding shares A majority of our project financing arrangements contain a covenant that Abengoa must own at least 35% of our outstanding shares. Abengoa currently owns 41.86% of our ordinary shares. As of December 24, 2015, Abengoa has pledged 39,530,843 of our ordinary shares, representing approximately 39.5% of our outstanding shares, to financial institutions as collateral for borrowings under financing arrangements. If Abengoa defaulted on any of these financing arrangements, such lenders may foreclose on the pledged shares and, as a result, Abengoa would own less than 35% of our outstanding shares and we would be in breach of covenants under the applicable project financing arrangements. If such a foreclosure occurred, we would be in breach of covenants and respective lenders would have the right to declare a default under the respective agreements and declare the entire amount to be due and payable immediately. Waivers have been requested from all parties to the project financing arrangements that contain these covenants. In addition, our Credit Facility includes a cross-default provision related to a default by our project subsidiaries in their financing arrangements, such that a payment default by one or more of our non-recourse subsidiaries representing more than 20% of the cash available for distribution distributed in the previous four fiscal quarters could trigger a default under our Credit Facility. Additionally, under the terms of our Credit Facility, we are required to comply with (i) a maintenance leverage ratio of 5.25:1.00 of our indebtedness at the holding level to our cash available for distribution on and after January 1, 2016, and prior to January 1, 2017, and (ii) an interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00 of cash available for distribution to debt service payments. A payment default, including a payment default resulting from failure to pay upon acceleration after an event of default, in several of our project companies or potential delays in distributions from several of our project companies may trigger these covenants. 31 Table of Contents If Abengoa initiates a bankruptcy filing in Spain, transactions we have entered into with Abengoa, including those related to drop-down assets, may be subject to insolvency claw-back actions and the transaction may be set aside. Under Spanish insolvency law, the transactions a company has entered into during the two years prior to the opening of insolvency proceedings can be set aside, irrespective of whether there was intent to defraud, if those transactions are considered materially damaging to the insolvency estate. Material damage is assessed on the basis of the circumstances at the time the transaction was carried out, without the benefit of hindsight and without considering subsequent events or occurrences, including events in relation to insolvency proceedings or the request to set-aside the transaction. Though we could be considered a “connected person” for purposes of Spanish bankruptcy proceedings (which triggers a presumption of damage), transactions we have entered into with Abengoa in the previous two years before it is declared insolvent (if such action were to take place) would not automatically be set aside. The court would consider if the transactions were detrimental to Abengoa on the terms on which they were made and the suitability of the transactions at the time they were entered into, if the transaction followed market standards and prices, had real economic value and if a transaction was carried out on the same conditions as it would have been by independent parties. In practice, transactions that are subject to claw-back that usually affect companies in the same group relate to: (a) unjustified payments or advances from the insolvent company to another group company, (b) transfers of assets or rights by the insolvent company to another group company at an undervalue, (c) payment-in-kind arrangements in which the property another group company receives in payment is higher in value than the debt owed to it, and (d) security provided by the insolvent company for another group company’s obligations. This determination will be a question of fact before a Spanish court if Abengoa initiates a bankruptcy filing in Spain, however if any of the transactions entered into between ourselves and Abengoa, including those related to drop-downs assets, were declared invalid by a Spanish court, unless it is determined we acted in bad faith, such transaction would be unwound and we would receive back the cash paid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The outcome of any bankruptcy proceedings that may be initiated by Abengoa would be difficult to predict given that Abengoa is incorporated in Spain and has assets and operations in several countries around the world. In the event of any bankruptcy or similar proceeding involving Abengoa or any of its subsidiaries, bankruptcy laws other than those of Spain could apply. The rights of Abengoa’s creditors may be subject to the laws of a number of jurisdictions and such multi-jurisdictional proceedings are typically complex and often result in substantial uncertainty. In addition, the bankruptcy and other laws of such jurisdictions may be materially different from, or in conflict with, one another. If Abengoa is subject to U.S. bankruptcy law, bankruptcy courts in the United States may seek to assert jurisdiction over all of its assets, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. A bankruptcy filing by Abengoa may permanently affect Abengoa’s operations. We cannot predict how any bankruptcy proceeding would be resolved or how our relationship with Abengoa will be affected following the initiation of any such proceedings or after the resolution of any such proceedings. Any bankruptcy proceedings initiated by Abengoa may have material adverse effects on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions from Abengoa Our ability to grow through acquisitions depends, in part, on Abengoa’s ability to present us with acquisition opportunities. On November 27, 2015, Abengoa reported that it filed a communication pursuant to article 5 bis of the Spanish Insolvency Law 22/2003 with the Mercantile Court of Seville nº 2. The filing by Abengoa was intended to initiate a process to try to reach an agreement with its main financial creditors, aimed to ensure the right framework to carry out such negotiations and provide Abengoa with financial stability in the short and medium term. As a result, Abengoa may have financial and resource constraints limiting or eliminating its ability to continue building the concessional assets which are currently under construction and may have financial and resource constraints limiting or eliminating its ability to develop and build new concessional assets. In addition, Abengoa may sell assets under construction before they reach their commercial operation date. For these reasons, we may not be able to consummate future acquisitions from Abengoa. Our organizational and ownership structure may create significant conflicts of interest that may be resolved in a manner that is not in our best interests or the best interests of our minority shareholders Our organizational and ownership structure involves a number of relationships that may give rise to certain conflicts of interest between us, Abengoa and the rest of our shareholders. Three of our eight directors are affiliated with Abengoa. Although some of these persons are subject to confidentiality obligations pursuant to confidentiality agreements or implied duties of confidence, the Support Services Agreement does not contain general confidentiality provisions. 32 Table of Contents Abengoa is a related party under the applicable securities laws governing related party transactions and may have interests which differ from our interests or those of our other minority shareholders, including with respect to the types of acquisitions made, the timing and amount of dividends paid by us, the reinvestment of returns generated by our operations, the use of leverage when making acquisitions and the appointment of outside advisors and service providers. Any material transaction between us and Abengoa (including the acquisition of any Abengoa ROFO Asset) is subject to our related party transaction policy, which requires prior approval of such transaction by a majority of the independent members of our board of directors (as discussed in “7.B—Related Party Transactions—Procedures for Review, Approval and Ratification of Related Party Transactions; Conflicts of Interest”). The existence of our related party transaction approval policy may not insulate us from derivative claims related to related party transactions and the conflicts of interest described in this risk factor. Regardless of the merits of such claims, we may be required to spend significant management time and financial resources in the defense thereof. Additionally, to the extent we fail to appropriately deal with any such conflicts, it could negatively impact our reputation and ability to raise additional funds and the willingness of counterparties to do business with us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If Abengoa terminates the Support Services Agreement or the operations and maintenance agreements or defaults in the performance of its obligations under the agreements, we may be unable to contract with a substitute service provider on similar terms, or at all We are currently in the process of finalizing the employment of all the persons who are performing support services for us on a full time basis. Until this process is complete, we continue to rely on Abengoa for certain support services under the Support Services Agreement. Abengoa or its subsidiaries currently provide certain support and administration services, information technology services as well as operating and maintenance services at most of our facilities. Any failure by Abengoa to perform its requirements under the services arrangements or under the operation and maintenance agreements, or any failure by us to identify and contract with replacement service providers, if required, could adversely affect our business or the operation of our facilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on Abengoa to provide information technology services to us that we use to operate our business, including control systems for asset management, our current ERP (SAP) used for reporting, controlling, accounting, and other support systems. We have launched a project to separate our IT systems from Abengoa’s, which we expect to complete in 9 to 12 months. However, if Abengoa ceases to provide such services prior to this time, we may be unable to replace such services with another provider on a comparable basis without having a temporary disruption to our business. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Kaxu, ATN2 and Solaben 1/6 The acquisition of any of Kaxu, ATN2 and Solaben 1/6 or other recently acquired assets may not achieve its intended results, and we may be unable to successfully integrate the assets and operations acquired We have recently acquired a 51% stake in Kaxu, ATN2 and Solaben 1/6. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of these assets is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the assets acquired can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. It is possible that the acquired assets may not perform as expected. The integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the disruption of each project’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. See “—Risks Related to Our Business and the Markets in Which We Operate—We may be adversely affected by risks associated with acquisitions or investments.” 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or pay dividends. It could also expose us to the risk of increased interest rates and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry as well as impact our cash available for distribution As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately (i) $5,470.7 million of total indebtedness under various project-level debt arrangements and (ii) $664.5 million of total indebtedness under our corporate arrangements, which includes the 2019 Notes and our drawdown under the Credit Facility. Our substantial debt could have important negative consequences on our financial condition, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to pay dividends to holders of our shares or to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; · limiting our ability to enter into long-term power sales, fuel purchases and swaps which require credit support; · limiting our ability to fund operations or future acquisitions; · restricting our ability to make certain distributions with respect to our shares and the ability of our subsidiaries to make certain distributions to us, in light of restricted payment and other financial covenants in our credit facilities and other financing agreements; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of some of our borrowings (below 10% as of the date hereof) are at variable rates of interest; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, including collateral postings, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes and the credit agreement governing the Credit Facility may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, to engage in other business activities that may be in our interest and to execute our business strategy as we intend to do so. The indenture governing the 2019 Notes contains covenants that limit certain of our and the guarantors’ activities, including those relating to: incurring additional indebtedness; paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock; prepaying subordinated indebtedness; making certain investments; imposing certain restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments; creating certain liens; transferring or selling assets; merging or consolidating with other entities; entering into transactions with affiliates; and engaging in unrelated businesses. Each of the covenants is subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications. In addition, certain of the covenants listed above will terminate before the 2019 Notes mature if at least two of the specified rating agencies assign the 2019 Notes an investment grade rating in the future and no events of default under the indenture governing the 2019 Notes exist and are continuing. Any covenants that cease to apply to us as a result of achieving investment grade ratings will not be restored, even if the credit ratings assigned to the 2019 Notes later fall below investment grade. The indenture governing the 2019 Notes also contains customary events of default (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods). Generally, if an event of default occurs and is not cured within the time periods specified, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the 2019 Notes then outstanding may declare all of the 2019 Notes to be due and payable immediately. 34 Table of Contents The Credit Facility contains covenants that limit certain of our and the guarantors’ activities, including those relating to: mergers; consolidations; the ability to incur additional indebtedness; sales, transfers and other dispositions of property and assets; providing new guarantees; investments; granting additional security interests, transactions with affiliates and our ability to pay cash dividends is also subject to certain standard restrictions. Additionally, we are required to comply with (i) a maintenance leverage ratio of our indebtedness at the holding level to our cash available for distribution of 5.25:1.00 on and after January 1, 2016 and prior to January 1, 2017 and 5.00:1.00 on and after January 1, 2017 and (ii) an interest coverage ratio of cash available for distribution to debt service payments of 2.00:1.00. The Credit Facility also contains customary events of default, the ability of the lenders to declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding loans, and interest accrued thereon, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, our Credit Facility includes a cross-default provision related to a default by our project subsidiaries in their financing arrangements, such that a payment default by one or more of our non-recourse subsidiaries representing more than 20% of the cash available for distribution distributed in the previous four fiscal quarters could trigger a default under our Credit Facility. If we violate any of these covenants, a default may result, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our debt and could limit our ability to pay dividends. The agreements governing our project-level financing contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our project subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us or otherwise engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. The extent of the restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to transfer assets to us through loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of third parties is significant, requiring us to include condensed financial information regarding Abengoa Yield plc as part of our Annual Consolidated Financial Statements. The project-level financing agreements generally prohibit distributions from the project entities to us unless certain specific conditions are met, including the satisfaction of certain financial ratios. In addition, the project-level financing for some of our assets prohibits distributions until the first principal repayment is made. Our inability to satisfy certain financial covenants may prevent cash distributions by the particular project(s) to us and, our failure to comply with those and other covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may entitle the related lenders to demand repayment or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, failure to comply with such covenants, including covenants under our 2019 Notes and the Credit Facility, may entitle the related noteholders or lenders, as applicable, to demand repayment and accelerate all such indebtedness. If our project-level subsidiaries are unable to make distributions, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to holders of our shares. Letter of credit facilities or personal guarantees to support project-level contractual obligations generally need to be renewed, at which time we will need to satisfy applicable financial ratios and covenants. If we are unable to renew the letters of credit as expected or replace them with letters of credit under different facilities on favorable terms or at all, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, such inability may constitute a default under certain project-level financing arrangements, restrict the ability of the project-level subsidiary to make distributions to us and/or reduce the amount of cash available at such subsidiary to make distributions to us. In addition, our ability to arrange financing, either at the corporate level or at a non-recourse project-level subsidiary, and the costs of such capital, are dependent on numerous factors, including: · general economic and capital market conditions; · credit availability from banks and other financial institutions; 35 Table of Contents · investor confidence in us, our partners and Abengoa, as our largest shareholder; · final outcome of Abengoa pre-insolvency proceedings; · our financial performance and the financial performance of our subsidiaries; · our level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants in debt agreements; · maintenance of acceptable project credit ratings or credit quality; · cash flow; and · provisions of tax and securities laws that may impact raising capital. We may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. Furthermore, we may be unable to refinance or replace project-level financing arrangements or other credit facilities on favorable terms or at all upon the expiration or termination thereof. Our failure, or the failure of any of our projects, to obtain additional capital or enter into new or replacement financing arrangements when due may constitute a default under such existing indebtedness and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Potential future defaults by our subsidiaries, Abengoa or other persons could adversely affect us All of our subsidiaries finance project assets and significant investments, including capital expenditures typically relating to contracted assets and concessions, primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the revenue of the project being financed thereby, and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the shares, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project company. This type of financing is usually referred to herein as “project debt.” As of December 31, 2015, we had $5,470.7 million of outstanding indebtedness under various project-level debt arrangements. While the lenders under our project debt do not have direct recourse to us or our subsidiaries (other than the project borrowers under those financings), defaults by the project borrowers under such financings can still have important consequences for us and our subsidiaries, including, without limitation: · reducing our receipt of dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash, since the project company will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to us and our subsidiaries during the pendency of any default; · causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets of the project company; and · the loss or impairment of investors’ and project finance lenders’ confidence in us. If we were to fail to satisfy any of our debt service obligations or to breach any related financial or operating covenants, the applicable lender could declare the full amount of the relevant indebtedness to be immediately due and payable and could foreclose on any assets pledged as collateral. The financing arrangements of some of our project subsidiaries (Solana, Mojave, Kaxu and Cadonal) contain cross-default provisions related to Abengoa. Defaults by Abengoa, subject to certain threshold amounts, could trigger defaults under such project financing arrangements. These cross-default provisions expire progressively over time, remaining in place until the termination of the obligations of Abengoa under such project financing arrangements. We are currently in discussions with our project finance lenders about developments at Abengoa. Although we do not expect the credit entities to use the cross-default provisions to request an acceleration of debt, the project companies did not have as of December 31, 2015, what International Accounting Standards define as an unconditional right to defer the settlement of the debt for at least twelve months after that date and therefore the debt has been presented as current in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 36 Table of Contents Our Credit Facility does not include a cross-default provision related to Abengoa. It includes, however, a cross-default provision related to a default by our project subsidiaries in their financing arrangements, such that a payment default by one or more of our non-recourse subsidiaries representing more than 20% of the cash available for distribution distributed in the previous four fiscal quarters could trigger a default under our Credit Facility. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Ownership of our Shares We may not be able to pay a specific or increasing level of cash dividends to holders of our shares in the future The amount of our cash available for distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; · the level of our operating and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Abengoa for services provided to us in accordance with the Support Services Agreement; · seasonal variations in revenues generated by the business; · operational performance of our assets; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds; · restrictions contained in our debt agreements (including our project-level financing); and · other business risks affecting our cash levels. As a result of all these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient cash generated from operations to pay a specific or increasing level of cash dividends to holders of our shares. Furthermore, holders of our shares should be aware that the amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities during a period that could significantly reduce or eliminate our cash available for distribution and, in turn, impair our ability to pay dividends to shareholders during the period. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends on our shares is limited by restrictions or limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, such as pursuant to shareholder loans, capital reductions or other means, to us, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing project-level financing, the 2019 Notes, the Credit Facility or legal, regulatory or other restrictions or limitations applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, such as exchange controls or similar matters or corporate law limitations, any of which could change from time to time and thereby limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Our project-level financing agreements generally prohibit distributions to us unless certain specific conditions are met, including the satisfaction of financial ratios. Our cash available for distribution will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter, in some cases significantly, due to seasonality. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Seasonality.” As result, we may reduce the amount of cash we distribute in a particular quarter to establish reserves to fund distributions to shareholders in future periods for which the cash distributions we would otherwise receive from our subsidiary project companies would otherwise be insufficient to fund our quarterly dividend. If we fail to establish sufficient reserves, we may not be able to maintain our quarterly dividend with a respect to a quarter adversely affected by seasonality. 37 Table of Contents Dividends to holders of our shares will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may decrease the level of or entirely discontinue payment of dividends. Our board of directors may change our dividend policy at any point in time or modify the dividend for specific quarters following prevailing conditions. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to pay cash dividends, please see “Item 8.A—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” We are a holding company and our only material assets are our interests in our subsidiaries, upon whom we are dependent for distributions to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses We are a holding company whose sole material assets consist of our interests in our subsidiaries. We do not have any independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause our operating subsidiaries to make distributions to us in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds for a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our shares or otherwise, and one or more of our operating subsidiaries is restricted from making such distributions under the terms of its financing or other agreements or applicable law and regulations or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We have a limited operating history and as a result there is no assurance we can operate on a profitable basis We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of operation. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing the risks we may encounter, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our shares One of the factors that will influence the price of our shares will be the effective dividend yield of our shares (i.e., the yield as a percentage of the then-market price of our shares) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of our shares to expect a higher dividend yield. Our inability to increase our dividend as a result of an increase in borrowing costs, insufficient cash available for distribution or otherwise could result in selling pressure on, and a decrease in, the market price of our shares as investors seek alternative investments with higher yield. Market volatility may affect the price of our shares and the value of your investment The market for securities issued by issuers such as us is influenced by economic and market conditions and, to varying degrees, market conditions, interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation rates in other countries. There can be no assurance that events in the United States, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa or elsewhere will not cause market volatility or that such volatility will not adversely affect the price of the shares or that economic and market conditions will not have any other adverse effect. Fluctuations in interest rates may give rise to arbitrage opportunities based upon changes in the relative value of the shares. Any trading by arbitrageurs could, in turn, affect the trading price of the shares. In the past there has been correlation between the price of our shares the price of oil and the price of shares of master limited partnerships, or MLPs, and a decline in the price of oil or MLP shares could cause a decline in the price of our shares. Securities markets in general may experience extreme volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Any broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading of our shares. 38 Table of Contents In addition, the market price of our shares may fluctuate in the event of negative developments in Abengoa the termination of the ROFO Agreement, the Support Services Agreement or additions or departures of our key personnel, changes in market valuations of similar companies or Abengoa and/or speculation in the press or investment community regarding us or Abengoa. You may experience dilution of your ownership interest due to the future issuance of additional shares In order to finance the growth of our business through future acquisitions, we may require additional funds from further equity or debt financings, including tax equity financing transactions or sales of preferred shares or convertible debt, to complete future acquisitions, expansions and capital expenditures and pay the general and administrative costs of our business. In the future, we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of purchasers of our shares offered hereby. The potential issuance of additional shares or preferred stock or convertible debt may create downward pressure on the trading price of our shares. We may also issue additional shares or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our shares in future public offerings or private placements for capital-raising purposes or for other business purposes, potentially at an offering price, conversion price or exercise price that is below the offering price for our shares in any of our previous offering. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease to publish research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely, the price and trading volume of our shares could decline The trading market for our shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, Abengoa, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our shares would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price or trading volume of our shares to decline. Future sales of our shares by Abengoa may cause the price of our shares to fall The market price of our shares could decline as a result of future sales by Abengoa of its shares in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. Abengoa currently owns 41.86% of our ordinary shares. As of December 24, 2015, Abengoa has pledged 39,530,843 of our ordinary shares, representing approximately 39.5% of our outstanding shares, to financial institutions as collateral for borrowings under financing arrangements. If Abengoa defaults on any of these financing arrangements, such lenders may foreclose on the shares and sell the shares in the market. Future sales of substantial amounts of the shares and/or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of the shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. The price of the shares could be depressed by investors’ anticipation of the potential sale in the market of substantial additional amounts of shares. Disposals of shares could increase the number of shares being offered for sale in the market and depress the trading price of our shares. As a “foreign private issuer” in the United States, we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the Commission than U.S. companies As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the Commission as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. 39 Table of Contents We will be a “foreign private issuer” so long as we are incorporated outside the United States except if as of the last business day of our most recently completed second quarter more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned by residents of the United States, and any of the following: (i) a majority of our executive officers or directors are U.S. citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of our assets are located in the United States or (iii) our business is principally administered in the United States. If we were to lose our “foreign private issuer” status, as a result of further sales by Abengoa of our shares or otherwise, we would no longer be exempt from certain provisions of the U.S. securities laws described above, we would be required to commence reporting on forms required of U.S. companies, such as Forms l0-K, 10-Q and 8-K, rather than the forms currently available to us, such as Forms 20-F and 6-K, we would be required to prepare our financial statements in U.S. GAAP, rather than IFRS, and we would likely incur increased compliance and other costs, among other consequences, any of which could material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be enforceable against us Judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in courts in the United Kingdom or other countries in which we operate. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us in the United States may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgment. There are limitations on enforceability of civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws We are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, a portion of our assets and the majority of the assets of our directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result it may be difficult or impossible to serve legal process on persons located outside the United States and to force them to appear in a U.S. court. It may also be difficult or impossible to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against persons outside the United States, or to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against such persons in the United States. We believe that there may be doubt as to the enforceability against persons in England and Wales and in Spain, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including its federal securities laws. Because we are a foreign private issuer, our directors and officers will not be subject to rules under the Exchange Act that under certain circumstances would require directors and officers to forfeit to us any “short-swing” profits realized from purchases and sales, as determined under the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, of our equity securities. In addition, punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in England and Wales and in Spain. Shareholders in certain jurisdictions may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights if we increase our share capital Under our articles of association, holders of our shares generally have the right to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of our shares to maintain their relative ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new shares in exchange for cash consideration. Holders of shares in certain jurisdictions may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights unless securities laws have been complied with in such jurisdictions with respect to such rights and the related shares, or an exemption from the requirements of the securities laws of these jurisdictions is available. We currently do not intend to register the shares under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States, and no assurance can be given that an exemption from the securities laws requirements of other jurisdictions will be available to shareholders in these jurisdictions. To the extent that such shareholders are not able to exercise their pre-emptive rights, the pre-emptive rights would lapse and the proportional interests of such holders would be reduced. 40 Table of Contents The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation organized in Delaware We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by English law, including the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006, and by our articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations organized in Delaware. The principal differences are set forth in “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Provisions in the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Code, applies, among other things, to an offer for a public company whose registered office is in the United Kingdom and whose securities are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the United Kingdom if the company is considered by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Panel, to have its place of central management and control in the United Kingdom. This is known as the “residency test.” The test for central management and control under the Takeover Code is different from that used by the UK tax authorities. Under the Takeover Code, the Takeover Panel will determine whether we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom by looking at various factors, including the structure of our board of directors, the functions of the directors and where they are resident. If at the time of a takeover offer the Takeover Panel determines that we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom, we would be subject to a number of rules and restrictions, including but not limited to the following: (1) our ability to enter into deal protection arrangements with a bidder would be extremely limited; (2) we may not, without the approval of our shareholders, be able to perform certain actions that could have the effect of frustrating an offer, such as issuing shares or carrying out acquisitions or disposals; and (3) we would be obliged to provide equality of information to all bona fide competing bidders. Risks Related to Taxation Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our reported earnings and cash flows Changes in corporate tax rates and/or other relevant tax laws in the United Kingdom, the United States or the other countries in which our assets are located could have a material impact on our future tax rate and/or our required tax payments. Although we consider our tax provision to be adequate, the final determination of our tax liability could be different from the forecasted amount, which could have potential adverse effects on our financial condition and cash flows. In relation to the United Kingdom Controlled Foreign Company regime, or the U.K. CFC rules, we have good arguments to consider that the foreign entities held under Abengoa Yield would not be subject to the U.K. CFC rules. Changes to the U.K. CFC rules or adverse interpretations of them, could have effects on the future tax rate and/or required tax payments in Abengoa Yield. With respect to some of our projects, we must meet defined requirements to apply favorable tax treatment, such as lower tax rates or exemptions. We intend to meet these requirements in order to benefit from the favorable tax treatment; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with all of the necessary requirements in the future, or the requirements could change or be interpreted in another manner, which could give rise to a greater tax liability and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 41 Table of Contents Our future tax liability may be greater than expected if we do not utilize net operating losses or net operating loss carryforwards sufficient to offset our taxable income We expect to generate net operating losses and net operating loss carryforwards (collectively, “NOLs”) that we can use to offset future taxable income. Based on our current portfolio of assets, which include renewable assets that benefit from an accelerated tax depreciation schedule, and subject to potential tax audits, which may result in income, sales, use or other tax obligations, we do not expect to pay significant taxes for a period of approximately 10 years, with the exception of ACT in Mexico, where we do not expect to pay significant income taxes until the fifth or sixth year after our IPO once we use existing NOLs. While we expect these NOLs will be available to us as a future benefit, in the event that they are not generated as expected, or are successfully challenged by the local tax authorities, such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs among others, by way of a tax audit or otherwise, or are subject to future limitations as discussed below, our ability to realize these benefits may be limited. A reduction in our expected NOLs, a limitation on our ability to use such NOLs or the occurrence of future tax audits may result in a material increase in our estimated future income tax liability and may negatively impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to use U.S. NOLs to offset future income may be limited Our ability to use U.S. NOLs generated in the future could be limited if we were to experience an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the IRC, and similar state rules. In general, an “ownership change” would occur if our “5-percent shareholders,” as defined under Section 382 of the IRC, collectively increased their ownership in us by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change U.S. NOLs equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate for the month in which the ownership change occurs, and increased by a certain portion of any “built-in-gains.” The long-term tax-exempt rate for February 2016 is 2.65%. Future sales of our shares by Abengoa, or sales of shares of Abengoa, as well as future issuances by us or Abengoa could contribute to a potential ownership change. In any case, in the event that section 382 would be applicable on our U.S. NOLs as a consequence of a potential ownership change, it is likely the NOLs could still be utilized because of this limitation would not negatively impact on our U.S. assets according to the provisions contained in that section. Distributions to U.S. Holders of our shares may be fully taxable as dividends It is difficult to predict whether or to what extent we will generate earnings or profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any given tax year. If we make distributions on the shares from current or accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such distributions generally will be taxable to U.S. Holders of our shares as ordinary dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under current law, if certain requirements are met, such dividends would be eligible for the lower tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income of certain non-corporate U.S. Holders. While we expect that a portion of our distributions to U.S. Holders of our shares may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and therefore may constitute a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of a U.S. Holder’s basis in our shares, no assurance can be given that this will occur. We intend to calculate our earnings and profits annually in accordance with U.S. federal income tax principles. See “Item 10.E—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 42 Table of Contents If we are a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, U.S. Holders of our shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences If Abengoa Yield were a “passive foreign investment company” within the meaning of Section 1297 of the IRC (a “PFIC”) for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder holds our shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences may apply to the U.S. Holder. Abengoa Yield does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2015 taxable year and does not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for its current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. However, PFIC status depends on the composition of a company’s income and assets and the fair market value of its assets (including, among others, less than 25% owned equity investments) from time to time, as well as on the application of complex statutory and regulatory rules that are subject to potentially varying or changing interpretations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Abengoa Yield will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If Abengoa Yield were a PFIC, U.S. Holders of our shares may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as taxation at the highest marginal ordinary income tax rates on capital gains and on certain actual or deemed distributions, interest charges on certain taxes treated as deferred, and additional reporting requirements. See “Item 10.E—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive foreign investment company rules.” 