Item 1A. Risk Factors Dominion Midstream’s business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond its control. A number of these factors have been identified below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. MD&A. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE STABLE AND GROWING CASH FLOWS Our sole cash generating asset is the Preferred Equity Interest, the distributions on which may not be sufficient following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. Our only source of cash is distributions we receive from Cove Point on the Preferred Equity Interest, which we expect will result in an annual payment to us of $50.0 million. The Preferred Equity Interest may not generate sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. In order to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution of $0.1750 per unit, or $0.70 per unit per year, we will be required to have distributable cash flow of approximately $11.2 million per quarter, or $44.8 million per year, based on the number of common and subordinated units outstanding at December 31, 2014. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units is almost entirely dependent upon Cove Point’s ability to generate cash and Net Operating Income from its operations. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development at Cove Point would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained a more diverse portfolio of assets. Cove Point’s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest will depend on several factors beyond our control, some of which are described below. The Preferred Equity Interest is non-cumulative. Cove Point will make Preferred Return Distributions on a quarterly basis provided it has sufficient cash and undistributed Net Operating Income (determined on a cumulative basis from the closing of the Offering) from which to make Preferred Return Distributions. Preferred Return Distributions are non-cumulative. In the event Cove Point is unable to fully satisfy Preferred Return Distributions during any quarter, we will not have a right to recover any missed or deficient payments. An inability to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our operations and ability to generate cash flow. We are dependent on our credit facility with Dominion for any borrowings necessary to meet our working capital and other financial needs. If Dominion’s funding resources were to become unavailable to Dominion, our access to funding would also be in jeopardy. In the future, an inability to obtain additional financing from other sources on acceptable terms could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows, anticipated financial results or impair our ability to generate additional cash flows. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants contained in any other credit facility or other debt agreements in place at the time, adverse market conditions or other contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds necessary to maintain, develop and increase our asset base could adversely impact our growth and profitability. 12 Table of Contents If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to make accretive acquisitions either from Dominion or third parties, and we may be unable to do so for any of the following reasons, without limitation: Ÿ We are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; Ÿ We are unable to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals; Ÿ We are unable to obtain financing for the acquisitions or future organic growth opportunities on acceptable terms, or at all; Ÿ We are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the future facilities; Ÿ We are outbid by competitors; or Ÿ Dominion may not offer us the opportunity to acquire assets or equity interests from it. We may not be able to obtain financing or successfully negotiate future acquisition opportunities offered by Dominion. If Dominion offers us the opportunity to purchase additional equity interests in Cove Point or interests in Blue Racer or Atlantic Coast Pipeline, or other assets or equity interests, we may not be able to successfully negotiate a purchase and sale agreement and related agreements, we may not be able to obtain any required financing on acceptable terms or at all for such purchase and we may not be able to obtain any required governmental and third party consents. The decision whether or not to accept such offer, and to negotiate the terms of such offer, will be made by our general partner consistent with its duties under our partnership agreement. Our general partner may decline the opportunity to accept such offer for a variety of reasons, including a determination that the acquisition of the assets at the proposed purchase price would result in a risk that the conversion of subordinated units would not occur. If we make future acquisitions, such acquisitions could adversely affect our business and cash flows. If we make any acquisitions, they will involve potential risks, including: Ÿ An inability to integrate successfully the businesses that we acquire with our existing operations; Ÿ A decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; Ÿ The assumption of unknown liabilities; Ÿ Limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; Ÿ Mistaken assumptions about the cash generated, or to be generated, by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt; Ÿ The diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and Ÿ Unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating new business segments or in new geographic areas. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility and ability to pay distributions. At December 31, 2014, we had no outstanding indebtedness and had undrawn borrowing capacity of $300 million under a credit facility with Dominion. We may borrow under such facility to pursue acquisitions and future organic growth opportunities, or to otherwise meet our financial needs. Although the credit facility does not contain any financial tests and covenants that we must satisfy as a condition to making distributions, we are required to pay any amounts then due and payable under such agreement prior to making any distributions to you, notwithstanding our stated cash distribution policy. Also, while such credit facility only contains limited representations, warranties and ongoing covenants consistent with other credit facilities made available by Dominion to certain of its other affiliates, we are required to obtain Dominion’s consent prior to creating any mortgage, security interest, lien or other encumbrance outside the ordinary course of business on any of our property, assets or revenues during the term of such agreement. Failure to obtain any such consent from Dominion in the future could have an adverse impact on our ability to implement our business strategies, generate revenues and pay distributions to our unitholders. In the future, we may incur additional significant indebtedness pursuant to other credit facilities or similar arrangements in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our assets. As amounts under any indebtedness we incur become due and payable, we expect that the instruments pursuant to which such indebtedness is incurred will require that we repay such amounts prior to making any distributions to our unitholders. We also expect that such instruments may contain financial tests and covenants that are not present in our credit facility with Dominion that we would need to satisfy as a condition to making distributions. Should we be unable to satisfy any such restrictions, we will be prohibited from making cash distributions to you notwithstanding our stated cash distribution policy. Our level of indebtedness could affect our ability to generate stable and growing cash flows in several ways, including the following: Ÿ A significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; Ÿ The covenants contained in the agreements governing our future indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments; Ÿ Our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; Ÿ A high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Ÿ A high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; and Ÿ A high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt-service requirements, acquisitions, general partnership or other purposes. 13 Table of Contents In addition, borrowings under our credit facility with Dominion and other credit facilities we or our subsidiaries may enter into in the future may bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt-service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. In addition to our debt-service obligations, our future operations may require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Cost and expense reimbursements owed to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of distributable cash flow to our unitholders. Our general partner will not receive a management fee or other compensation for its management of our partnership, but we are obligated to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses incurred and payments made on our behalf. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform various general, administrative and support services for us or on our behalf, and corporate overhead costs and expenses allocated to us by Dominion. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the costs and expenses that are allocable to us and does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. The payment of fees to our general partner and its affiliates and the reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR INVESTMENT IN COVE POINT Cove Point’s revenue is generated by contracts with a limited number of customers, and Cove Point’s ability to generate cash required to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest is substantially dependent upon the performance of these customers under their contracts. Cove Point provides service to twenty-three customers, including the Storage Customers, sixteen marketers or end users and the Import Shippers. The three largest customers comprised approximately 93%, 94% and 93% of the total transportation and storage revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Cove Point’s largest customer represented approximately 72% of such amounts in 2014, 2013 and 2012. Because Cove Point has a small number of customers, its contracts subject it to counterparty risk. The ability of each of Cove Point’s customers to perform their obligations to Cove Point will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Cove Point’s future results and liquidity are substantially dependent upon the performance of these customers under their contracts, and on such customers’ continued willingness and ability to perform their contractual obligations. Cove Point is also exposed to the credit risk of any guarantor of these customers’ obligations under their respective agreements in the event that Cove Point must seek recourse under a guaranty. Any such credit support may not be sufficient to satisfy the obligations in the event of a counterparty default. In addition, if a controversy arises under an agreement resulting in a judgment in Cove Point’s favor where the counterparty has limited assets in the U.S. to satisfy such judgment, Cove Point may need to seek to enforce a final U.S. court judgment in a foreign tribunal, which could involve a lengthy process. Upon the expiration of Cove Point’s import contracts, we expect these contracts will not be renewed. Cove Point’s contracts may become subject to termination or force majeure provisions under certain circumstances that, if triggered for any reason, could have an adverse effect on Cove Point and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. In the event any of Cove Point’s customers becomes entitled to terminate its further contractual obligations to Cove Point and exercises such right, such termination could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects, which could have an adverse impact on Cove Point’s ability to pay the Preferred Return Distributions. Cove Point is not currently receiving any revenues under its export contracts, and the export contracts may be terminated by Export Customers if certain conditions precedent are not met or for other reasons. Cove Point’s agreements with the Export Customers, while executed, will not begin generating revenues for Cove Point prior to the completion of the Liquefaction Project. In addition, the Export Customers may become entitled to terminate, or be relieved from, their contractual obligations to Cove Point under certain circumstances, including: (i) failure of certain conditions precedent to be met or waived by specified dates; (ii) the occurrence and continuance of certain events of force majeure (including the loss of Non-FTA Approval); (iii) delays in the commencement of commercial operations of the Liquefaction Project beyond specified time periods; and (iv) failure by Cove Point to satisfy its contractual obligations after any applicable cure periods. If such agreements were terminated, there can be no assurance that Cove Point will be able to replace such agreements on comparable terms. The termination of, and failure to replace, the export contracts could have an adverse impact on Cove Point’s ability to pay the Preferred Return Distributions following the expiration of certain of its contracts with Statoil described below if Cove Point was unable to generate sufficient annual cash flows from other sources. Cove Point’s existing revenue streams will be insufficient to pay the full amount of Preferred Return Distributions commencing May 1, 2017. Cove Point currently has 800,000 Dths/day of regasification and firm transportation capacity under contract with Statoil. Statoil’s obligations with respect to 640,000 Dths/day of such capacity will expire as of January 1, 2017, with the remainder expiring on May 1, 2017 in order to provide capacity to be utilized in connection with the Liquefaction Project. Following the expiration of these contracts with Statoil, unless the Liquefaction Project is completed, Cove Point is not expected to generate annual cash flows sufficient to pay Preferred Return Distributions in full. We intend to cause Cove Point to 14 Table of Contents set aside a distribution reserve sufficient to pay two quarters of Preferred Return Distributions (and two quarters of similar distributions with respect to any other preferred equity interests in Cove Point) by December 31, 2016, but there can be no assurance that funds will be available or sufficient for such purpose or that Cove Point will have sufficient cash and undistributed Net Operating Income to permit it to continue to make Preferred Return Distributions after the expiration of the Statoil contracts. Cove Point may be unable to complete the Liquefaction Project for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside of its control, and some of which are described below. In the event Cove Point is unable to complete the Liquefaction Project or if the export contracts are terminated and not replaced and, in either case, Cove Point does not have sufficient cash and Net Operating Income from other sources following the expiration of its contracts with Statoil referenced above, Cove Point will not be able to pay the Preferred Return Distributions and distributions with respect to any future preferred equity interests acquired by us. The inability of Cove Point to make Preferred Return Distributions could have a significant impact on our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, the inability of Cove Point to generate revenues sufficient to support the payment of distributions on additional preferred equity interests that may otherwise be made available to us could adversely impact our overall business plan and ability to generate stable and growing cash flows. Various factors could negatively affect the timing or overall development of the Liquefaction Project, which could adversely affect Cove Point’s ability to make payments on our Preferred Equity Interest after May 1, 2017. Commercial development of the Liquefaction Project will take a number of years. Completion of the Liquefaction Project could be delayed by factors such as: Ÿ The ability to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses and approvals from agencies and third parties that are required to construct or operate the Liquefaction Project; Ÿ Force majeure events, weather conditions, shortages of materials or delays in the delivery of materials, and as construction progresses, Cove Point may decide or be forced to submit change orders to its contractors that could result in longer construction periods; Ÿ The ability to attract sufficient skilled and unskilled labor and the existence of any labor disputes, and Cove Point’s ability to maintain good relationships with its contractors in order to construct the Liquefaction Project within the expected parameters and the ability of those contractors to perform their obligations; and Ÿ Dominion’s ability and willingness to provide funding for the development of the Liquefaction Project and, if necessary, Cove Point’s ability to obtain additional funding for the development of the Liquefaction Project. Any delay in completion of the Liquefaction Project may prevent Cove Point from commencing liquefaction operations when anticipated, which could cause a delay in the receipt of revenues therefrom, require Cove Point to pay damages to its customers, or in event of significant delays beyond certain time periods, permit either or both of Cove Point’s Export Customers to terminate their contractual obligations to Cove Point. As a result, any significant construction delay, whatever the cause, could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point’s operating results and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. In addition, the successful completion of the Liquefaction Project is subject to the risk of cost overruns, which may make it difficult to finance the completion of the Liquefaction Project. Cove Point is dependent on its contractors for the successful completion of the Liquefaction Project and may be unable to complete the Liquefaction Project on time. There is limited recent industry experience in the U.S. regarding the construction or operation of large-scale liquefaction facilities. The construction of the Liquefaction Project is expected to take several years, will be confined within a limited geographic area and could be subject to delays, cost overruns, labor disputes and other factors that could adversely affect Cove Point’s financial performance or impair its ability to execute the business plan for the Liquefaction Project as scheduled. Timely and cost-effective completion of the Liquefaction Project in compliance with agreed-upon specifications is highly dependent upon the performance of Cove Point’s contractors pursuant to their agreements. Further, faulty construction that does not conform to Cove Point’s design and quality standards may also have a similar adverse effect. For example, improper equipment installation may lead to a shortened life of Cove Point’s equipment, increased operations and maintenance costs or a reduced availability or production capacity of the affected facility. The ability of Cove Point’s contractors to perform successfully under their agreements is dependent on a number of factors, including force majeure events and the contractors’ ability to: Ÿ Design, engineer and receive critical components and equipment necessary for the Liquefaction Project to operate in accordance with specifications and address any start-up and operational issues that may arise in connection with the commencement of commercial operations; Ÿ Attract, develop and retain skilled personnel and engage and retain third party subcontractors, and address any labor issues that may arise; Ÿ Post required construction bonds and comply with the terms thereof, and maintain their own financial condition, including adequate working capital; and Ÿ Respond to difficulties such as equipment failure, delivery delays, schedule changes and failure to perform by subcontractors, some of which are beyond their control and manage the construction process generally, including coordinating with other contractors and regulatory agencies and dealing with inclement weather conditions. Although some agreements with Cove Point’s contractors may provide for liquidated damages, if the contractor fails to perform in the manner required with respect to certain of its obligations, the events that trigger a requirement to pay liquidated damages may delay or impair the operations of the Liquefaction Project and any liquidated damages that Cove Point receives may not be sufficient to cover the damages that it suffers as a result of any such delay or impairment. Furthermore, Cove Point may have disagreements with its contractors about different elements of the construction process, which could lead to the assertion of rights and remedies under the related contracts resulting in a contractor’s unwillingness to perform further work on the Liquefaction Project. Cove Point may also face difficulties in 15 Table of Contents commissioning a newly constructed facility. Any significant project delays in the construction of the Liquefaction Project could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point’s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Cove Point is dependent on Dominion to fund the costs necessary to construct the Liquefaction Project. If Dominion is unwilling or unable to supply the funding necessary to complete the Liquefaction Project, Cove Point may be required to seek additional financing in the future and may not be able to secure such financing on acceptable terms. Cove Point began construction on the Liquefaction Project, which is estimated to cost approximately $3.4 billion to $3.8 billion, excluding financing costs. Through December 31, 2014, Cove Point incurred $930.4 million of development and construction costs associated with the Liquefaction Project that were funded by Dominion. Dominion has indicated that it intends to provide the funding necessary for the remaining construction costs, but it has no contractual obligation to do so and has not secured all of the funding necessary to cover these costs, as it intends to finance these costs as they are incurred using its consolidated operating cash flows in addition to proceeds from capital markets transactions. Existing revenue streams and cash reserves will be insufficient for Cove Point to complete the Liquefaction Project. If Dominion is unwilling to provide funding for the remaining construction costs, or is unable to obtain such funding in the amounts required or on terms acceptable to Dominion, Cove Point would have to obtain additional funding from lenders, in the capital markets or through other third parties. Any such additional funding may not be available in the amounts required or on terms acceptable to Cove Point and Dominion Midstream. The failure to obtain any necessary additional funding could cause the Liquefaction Project to be delayed or not be completed. If Cove Point does obtain bank financing or access the capital markets, incurring additional debt may significantly increase interest expense and financial leverage, which could compromise Cove Point’s ability to fund future development and acquisition activities and restrict Cove Point’s ability to make payments on our Preferred Equity Interest, which would in turn limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Dominion has also entered into guarantee arrangements on behalf of Cove Point to facilitate the Liquefaction Project, including guarantees supporting the terminal services and transportation agreements as well as the engineering, procurement and construction contract for the Liquefaction Project. Two of the guarantees have no stated limit, one guarantee has a $150 million limit, and one guarantee has a $1.75 billion aggregate limit with an annual draw limit of $175 million. If Cove Point was required to replace these guarantees with other credit support, the cost could be significant. The construction of the Liquefaction Project remains subject to further approvals and some approvals may be subject to further conditions, review and/or revocation. Cove Point has received the required approvals to commence construction of the Liquefaction Project from the DOE, FERC and the Maryland Commission, which are subject to compliance with the applicable permit conditions. However, all DOE export licenses are subject to review and possible withdrawal should the DOE conclude that such export authorization is no longer in the public interest. The issuance of the FERC Order approving the Liquefaction Project has been appealed by third parties. Cove Point does not know whether any existing or potential interventions or other actions by third parties will interfere with Cove Point’s ability to maintain such approvals, but loss of any material approval could have a material adverse effect on the construction or operation of the facility. In addition, the Liquefaction Project has been the subject of litigation in the past and could be the subject of litigation in the future. Failure to comply with regulatory approval conditions or an adverse ruling in any future litigation could adversely affect Cove Point’s operations, financial condition, and ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our business strategy is dependent on the ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. The key executive officers of our general partner are the CEO, CFO and executive vice president and those responsible for financial, operational, legal, regulatory and accounting functions. Competition for skilled management employees in these areas of our business operations is high. In addition, demand for skilled professional and technical employees in gas transmission, storage, gathering, processing and distribution and in design and construction is high in light of growth in demand for natural gas, increased supply of natural gas as a result of developments in gas production, increased infrastructure projects, increased risk in certain areas of our business, such as cybersecurity, and increased regulation of these activities. Our inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect our business and future operating results. An aging workforce in the energy industry necessitates recruiting, retaining and developing the next generation of leadership. Construction of the Liquefaction Project and Cove Point’s results of operations may be affected by changes in the weather. As with any industrial facility, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing construction delays, outages and property damage that require incurring additional expenses. Furthermore, Cove Point’s operations could be adversely affected and its physical plant is at risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation or a change in sea level or sea temperatures. Cove Point’s construction and operations activities are subject to operational hazards, equipment failures, supply chain disruptions and personnel issues, which could create significant liabilities and losses, and negatively affect Cove Point’s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. The construction and operation of Cove Point’s facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, pipeline integrity, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, intentional acts of sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions 16 Table of Contents resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. Because the Cove Point Facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of the Cove Point Facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. Cove Point’s business is dependent upon sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, the failure of which could prevent it from accomplishing critical business functions. Unplanned outages of the Cove Point Facilities and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are inherent risks of Cove Point’s business. Unplanned outages typically increase operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce Cove Point’s revenues as a result of selling fewer services or incurring increased rate credits to customers. If Cove Point is unable to perform its contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. In addition, there are many risks associated with the transportation, storage and processing of natural gas and LNG, including fires, releases of natural gas or other substances, the collision of third party equipment with pipelines and other environmental incidents. Such incidents could result in the loss of human life or injuries among Cove Point’s employees; damage or destruction of any part of the Cove Point Facilities or the property of third parties; business interruptions and associated safety impacts; and subsequent losses of revenues, heightened regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our reputation. Cove Point maintains property and casualty insurance that may cover certain damage and claims caused by such incidents, but other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available, in which case such risks or losses could create significant liabilities that negatively affect Cove Point’s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Cove Point’s operations are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs on Cove Point, and existing and future environmental and similar laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Cove Point’s operations and the Liquefaction Project are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and other wastes, and protection of natural resources and human health and safety. Many of these laws and regulations, such as the CAA, the CWA, the Oil Pollution Act, and the RCRA and analogous state laws and regulations require Cove Point to commit significant capital toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and the purchase of emission allowances and/or offsets in connection with the construction and operations of the Cove Point Facilities. Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial liabilities, fines and penalties or to capital expenditures related to pollution control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point’s business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects. Additionally, federal and state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the original conduct, for the release of certain types or quantities of hazardous substances into the environment. Revised, reinterpreted or additional laws and regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating or construction costs and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, liquidity and prospects. There are numerous regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program, and regulation by the U.S. EPA. Additional regulation of air emissions, including GHGs, under the CAA may be imposed on the natural gas sector, including rules to limit methane gas emissions. Compliance with GHG emission reduction requirements may require the retrofitting or replacement of equipment or could otherwise increase the cost to operate and maintain the Cove Point Facilities. We are unable to estimate Cove Point’s compliance costs with certainty due to our inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any future environmental rules or regulations. Other factors that affect Cove Point’s ability to predict future environmental expenditures with certainty include the difficulty in estimating any future clean-up costs and quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties. However, such expenditures, if material, could result in the impairment of assets or otherwise adversely affect the results of Cove Point’s operations, financial performance or liquidity and ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. War, natural disasters and other significant events could adversely affect the construction of the Liquefaction Project and Cove Point’s operations. We cannot predict world hostility that may impact the energy industry in general or on Cove Point’s business in particular, including the construction of the Liquefaction Project. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect Cove Point’s operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. In addition, Cove Point’s infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Furthermore, the physical compromise of the Cove Point Facilities could adversely affect its ability to manage its facilities effectively. Instability in financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, earthquakes and other natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors could result in a significant decline in the U.S. economy and increase the cost of insurance coverage, which could negatively impact Cove Point’s results of operations, financial condition and ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair Cove Point’s operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage its reputation and otherwise have an adverse effect on its business. Cove Point owns assets deemed by the FERC as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run the Cove Point Facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. gas transmission system or Cove Point’s operations could view its computer systems, software or networks as attractive targets for a cyber-attack. 17 Table of Contents A successful cyber attack on the systems that control Cove Point’s assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing it from serving customers or collecting revenues. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to Cove Point’s reputation. Cove Point maintains property and casualty insurance that may cover certain damage caused by potential cybersecurity incidents; however, other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect Cove Point’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. To maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility, Cove Point may need to purchase and process LNG. Cove Point needs to maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility when the terminal facilities are not being used by purchasing LNG. Each year, one or two LNG cargos are procured and are billed to Cove Point’s Import Shippers pursuant to a cost recovery mechanism set forth in Cove Point’s FERC gas tariff. This cost recovery mechanism expires by its terms on December 31, 2016, and there can be no assurance that a similar recovery mechanism will be available thereafter. Following the completion of the Liquefaction Project, the Cove Point LNG Facility will be a bi-directional facility, reducing the risk that it will not be used for either import or export, and the addition of liquefaction facilities, which can be used to liquefy any boil-off gas, is expected to reduce any need for Cove Point to procure LNG for cooling purposes. However, Cove Point may need to maintain or obtain funds necessary to procure LNG to maintain the cryogenic readiness of the Cove Point LNG Facility in the future, which could adversely impact its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Certain of Cove Point’s operations are subject to the FERC’s rate-making policies, which could limit Cove Point’s ability to recover the full cost of operating its assets, including earning a reasonable return, and have an adverse effect on Cove Point’s ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. Cove Point is subject to extensive regulations relating to the jurisdictional rates it can charge for its natural gas regasification, storage and transportation services. The FERC establishes both the maximum and minimum rates Cove Point can charge for jurisdictional services. The basic elements of rate-making that the FERC considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported and handled, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate-of-return that a regulated entity is permitted to earn. The profitability of this business is dependent on Cove Point’s ability, through the rates that it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on its capital investment. The FERC or a customer of Cove Point can challenge Cove Point’s existing jurisdictional rates, which Cove Point may be required to change should the FERC find those rates to be unjust and unreasonable. Such a challenge could adversely affect Cove Point’s ability to maintain its current revenue levels. Cove Point and its jurisdictional customers are subject to a rate moratorium through 2016. Cove Point is required to file its next rate case so that new jurisdictional rates are effective Jan- uary 1, 2017. When Cove Point files its next rate case in 2016, or if it has to defend its rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or the FERC, Cove Point will be required, among other things, to support its rates, by showing that they reflect recovery of its costs plus a reasonable return on its investment, in accordance with cost of service ratemaking. A failure to support its rates could result in a rate decrease from its current maximum rate levels, which could adversely affect its operating results, cash flows and financial position and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. In addition, as part of Cove Point’s obligations to support its rates, Cove Point is required to establish the inclusion of an income tax allowance in Cove Point’s cost of service as just and reasonable. Under current FERC policy, because we are a limited partnership and do not pay U.S. federal income taxes, this would require us to show that our unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the portion of Cove Point’s income allocable to us. To support such a showing, our general partner may elect to require owners of our units to recertify their status as being subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or we may attempt to provide other evidence. We can provide no assurance that the evidence we might provide to the FERC will be sufficient to establish that our unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to U.S. federal income tax liability on the income generated by Cove Point that is allocable to us. If we are unable to make such a showing, the FERC could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by Cove Point, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. An adverse determination by the FERC with respect to Cove Point’s open access rates could have a material adverse effect on Cove Point’s revenues, earnings and cash flows and its ability to make payments on the Preferred Equity Interest. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN US Dominion owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Dominion, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Dominion owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that it believes is not adverse to our interest, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Dominion. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Dominion or any of its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us or any of our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: Ÿ Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Dominion, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement; 18 Table of Contents Ÿ Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Dominion to pursue a business strategy that favors us; Ÿ Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner’s liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; Ÿ Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; Ÿ Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; Ÿ Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any cash expenditure and whether an expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders, which, in turn, may affect the ability of the subordinated units to convert; Ÿ Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; Ÿ Our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $45.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the IDRs; Ÿ Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; Ÿ Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; Ÿ Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; Ÿ Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units; Ÿ Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; Ÿ Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and Ÿ Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s IDRs without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of the Board of Directors of our general partner or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, we may compete directly with Dominion and entities in which it has an interest for acquisition opportunities and potentially will compete with these entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. The Board of Directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. The Board of Directors of our general partner adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to distribute quarterly at least $0.1750 per unit on all of our units to the extent we have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of our expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. However, the Board of Directors of our general partner may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. In addition, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the Board of Directors of our general partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our general partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of Dominion to the detriment of our common unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. We expect to distribute a significant portion of our distributable cash flow to our partners, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We plan to distribute most of our distributable cash flow, which may cause our growth to proceed at a slower pace than that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. 19 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: Ÿ How to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; Ÿ Whether to exercise its limited call right; Ÿ How to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; Ÿ Whether to exercise its registration rights; Ÿ Whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and Ÿ Whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of Dominion Midstream or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: Ÿ Whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner generally is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any higher standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; Ÿ Our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages or otherwise to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that such losses or liabilities were the result of conduct in which our general partner or its officers or directors engaged in bad faith, meaning that they believed that the decision was adverse to the interest of Dominion Midstream or, with respect to any criminal conduct, with knowledge that such conduct was unlawful; and Ÿ Our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: (1) Approved by the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (2) Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, other than one where our general partner is permitted to act in its sole discretion, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the Conflicts Committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the Board of Directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or Dominion Midstream, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Dominion and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner, engaging in activities incidental to its ownership interest in us and providing management, advisory, and administrative services to its affiliates or to other persons. However, affiliates of our general partner, including Dominion, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. In addition, Dominion may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Dominion. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. The holder or holders of our IDRs may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the IDRs, without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of our general partner’s Board of Directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. The holder or holders of a majority of our IDRs (initially our general partner) have the right, at any time when there are no 20 Table of Contents subordinated units outstanding, and we have made cash distributions in excess of the highest then-applicable target distribution for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution levels at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be calculated equal to an amount equal to the prior cash distribution per common unit for the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the reset election (which amount we refer to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution for the quarter prior to the reset election equal to the distribution on the IDRs for the quarter prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per unit without such conversion. However, our general partner may transfer the IDRs at any time. It is possible that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when the holders of the IDRs expect that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, the holders of the IDRs may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to the IDRs and may therefore desire to be issued our common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to the holders of the IDRs in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade. Compared to the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Dominion, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our gen- eral partner. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. At December 31, 2014, Dominion owned an aggregate of 68.5% of our common and subordinated units. In addition, any vote to remove our general partner during the subordination period must provide for the election of a successor general partner by the holders of a majority of the common units and a majority of the subordinated units, voting as separate classes. This will provide Dominion the ability to prevent the removal of our general partner. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owner of our general partner to transfer its membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and executive officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a change of control without the vote or consent of the unitholders. The IDRs may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer the IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers the IDRs to a third party, our general partner would not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time. For example, a transfer of IDRs by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Dominion accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by Dominion, as it would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the limited call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from causing us to issue additional common units and then exercising its limited call right. 21 Table of Contents If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. At December 31, 2014, Dominion owned an aggregate of 68.5% of our common and subordinated units. Our general partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to permit the general partner to redeem the units of certain unitholders. Our general partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status or the nationality, citizenship or other related status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and to permit our general partner to redeem the units held by any person (i) whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to our customers, (ii) whose nationality, citizenship or related status creates substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of our property or (iii) who fails to comply with the procedures established to obtain such proof. The redemption price in the case of such a redemption will be the average of the daily closing prices per unit for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the date set for redemption. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: Ÿ Our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; Ÿ The amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease; Ÿ Because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; Ÿ The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; Ÿ The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and Ÿ The market price of the common units may decline. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue units ranking senior to the common units. In accordance with Delaware law and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may issue additional partnership interests that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of units of senior rank may (i) reduce or eliminate the amount of distributable cash flow to our common unitholders; (ii) diminish the relative voting strength of the total common units outstanding as a class; or (iii) subordinate the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by Dominion or other large holders. At December 31, 2014, we had 31,975,111 common units and 31,972,789 subordinated units outstanding. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at the end of the subordination period. All of the common and subordinated units issued to Dominion are subject to resale restrictions under a 180-day lock-up agreement with the underwriters from the closing date of the Offering. Each of the lock-up agreements with the underwriters may be waived in the discretion of certain of the underwriters. Sales by Dominion or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we have agreed to provide registration rights to Dominion. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake a future public or private offering of common units and use the net proceeds from such offering to redeem an equal number of common units held by Dominion. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. A trading market that will provide you with adequate liquidity may not develop. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Prior to the Offering, there was no public market for the common units. At December 31, 2014, there were 20,127,322 publicly traded common units outstanding and the common units were listed on the NYSE. We do not know how liquid that market might become. Unitholders may not be able to resell their common units at or above the Offering price. Additionally, the lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: Ÿ Our quarterly distributions; Ÿ Our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; Ÿ Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; Ÿ Changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; Ÿ General economic conditions; Ÿ The failure of securities analysts to cover our common units after this offering or changes in financial estimates by analysts; Ÿ Future sales of our common units; and Ÿ The other factors described in these Risk Factors. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as amended, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value 22 Table of Contents of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners that received the distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to Dominion Midstream are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements that apply to other public companies, including those relating to auditing standards and disclosure about our executive compensation. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging growth companies, including certain requirements relating to auditing standards and compensation disclosures. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise or (4) provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. We are not currently required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. As a publicly traded partnership, we are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we are required to disclose material changes made to our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we are not required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until our annual report filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. To comply with the requirements of being a publicly traded partnership, we may need to implement additional internal controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting, finance and legal staff. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. We have been approved to list our common units on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s Board of Directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements. We incur incremental general and administrative costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. We have limited history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to the Offering. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, requires publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that further increase our costs. The amount of our expenses or reserves for expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership reduces the amount of cash we have for distribution to our unitholders. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders is affected by the costs associated with being a public company. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These rules and regulations increase certain of our legal and financial compliance 23 Table of Contents costs and make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded company, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our SEC reporting requirements. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon Cove Point’s current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us or Cove Point. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us or Cove Point to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us or Cove Point to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Specifically, we will initially conduct business (including through Cove Point) in Delaware, Maryland and Virginia, each of which imposes a margin or franchise tax. In the future, we may expand our operations. Imposition of a similar tax on us or Cove Point in other jurisdictions that we may expand to could substantially reduce our distributable cash flow to you. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative or legislative action or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2021. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, President Obama’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. If the IRS were to contest the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce distributable cash flow to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our or Cove Point’s treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in distributable cash flow to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Even if unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us, they will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income. Unitholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that income. Taxable gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary 24 Table of Contents income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or existing and proposed Treasury regulations thereunder. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this approach. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury regu- lations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned common units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner (as the holder of our IDRs) and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or 25 Table of Contents exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. At December 31, 2014, Dominion owned 68.5% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by Dominion of all or a portion of its interests in us could, in conjunction with the trading of common units held by the public, result in a termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our constructive termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has constructively terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, Dominion Midstream may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We will initially conduct business (including through Cove Point) in Maryland, Virginia and Delaware. Each of those states imposes an income tax on corporations and other entities. Each of those states also imposes a personal income tax on individuals. In addition, we may also own property or do business in other states in the future that impose income or similar taxes on nonresident individuals. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 