D. Risk Factors—Risks Inherent in Our Business—We are a holding entity that has historically derived a substantial majority of our income from equity interests in our joint ventures. Neither we nor our joint venture partners exercise affirmative control over our joint ventures. Accordingly, we cannot require our joint ventures to act in our best interests. Furthermore, our joint venture partners may prevent our joint ventures from taking action that may otherwise be beneficial to us, including making cash distributions to us. A deadlock between us and our joint venture partners could result in our exchanging equity interests in one of our joint ventures for the equity interests in our other joint venture held by our joint venture counterparties or in us or our joint venture partner selling shares in a joint venture to a third party.” Additionally, certain matters relating to our joint venture partners require the unanimous approval of the board of directors of the applicable SRV Joint Gas joint venture, including: · agreement of any form of time charter to be entered into by such SRV Joint Gas joint venture and any material amendment to such time charter; · agreement of any form of ship management agreement to be entered into by such SRV Joint Gas joint venture; · agreement of the terms of any financing of the GDF Suez Neptune or the GDF Suez Cape Ann, as applicable, or any other financing exceeding $5,000,000; · investments exceeding $2,500,000 for an SRV Joint Gas joint venture or $5,000,000 for both SRV Joint Gas joint ventures; · amendment or change of the articles of association, business or composition of the board of directors of such SRV Joint Gas joint venture; · issuance of, or granting of options or rights to subscribe for, shares in such SRV Joint Gas joint venture, issuance of loan capital or convertible securities of such SRV Joint Gas joint venture, alteration of the share capital of such SRV Joint Gas joint venture or formation of any subsidiary; · granting any security over shares of such SRV Joint Gas joint venture other than in accordance with the applicable security documents; · acquisition of other companies; · entering into joint ventures and other long-term cooperation with third parties; · taking any action in respect of a significant contractual dispute, including commencement and defending any action or settling any dispute; and · sale of the GDF Suez Neptune or the GDF Suez Cape Ann. Höegh LNG, MOL and TLT made loans to each of the SRV Joint Gas joint ventures, in part to finance the operations of such joint ventures. In connection with the IPO, Höegh LNG’s shareholder loans to each of the joint ventures were transferred to our operating company. For a description of the shareholder loans, please read “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Activities—Joint Ventures Debt—Loans Due to Owners (Shareholder Loans).” Under the SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement, the board of directors of an SRV Joint Gas joint venture is responsible for determining the amount of profits to be distributed each financial year. Distributions must first be used to repay the principal of the shareholder loans. Subsequent distributions are permitted but are subject to (i) preexisting financial agreements between such SRV Joint Gas joint venture and its lenders and (ii) prudent maintenance of reserve accounts. 56 Pursuant to the SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement, in order for a party to transfer its shares, it must provide written notice and establish a fair price evaluation of the shares proposed to be transferred. Additionally, such party must permit the remaining parties (excluding TLT) to acquire such shares or sell their shares to the proposed transferor at the same price as the proposed transfer. The SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement also contemplates certain events that, upon occurrence and failure to cure, if a cure period is allowed, will give rise to a potential exchange of shares or a liquidation of such joint venture. These events include a party’s failure to make required payments, default in any material duties and/or obligations, insolvency and change of control, pursuant to which such party is acquired by a direct competitor. If one of these events occurs, we and our joint venture partners will attempt to exchange shares so that our operating company, on the one hand, will own 100% of one SRV Joint Gas joint venture, and MOL and TLT, on the other hand, will own 100% of the other SRV Joint Gas joint venture. If such an exchange cannot be agreed upon, then the party not in default, not insolvent or not undergoing a change of control may either purchase the shares and the shareholder loans from the other parties or demand termination of the SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement and a liquidation of the applicable SRV Joint Gas joint venture. Until the termination of the SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement, Höegh LNG has agreed to continue to own common units and subordinated units representing a greater than 25% limited partner interest in us in the aggregate. In addition, Höegh LNG will be required to continue to directly or indirectly maintain the ability to control our general partner pursuant to an agreement with MOL. The SRV Joint Gas shareholders’ agreement terminates when one party holds a 100% interest in the SRV Joint Gas joint ventures or a party not in default, not insolvent or not undergoing a change of control elects to terminate the agreement. PT Höegh Shareholders’ Agreement We own a 100% equity interest in Höegh Lampung, which owns a 49% equity interest in PT Höegh (the owner of the PGN FSRU Lampung). PT Bahtera, an Indonesian company established in February 2013, owns the remaining 51% equity interest in PT Höegh in order to comply with local Indonesian regulations. However, pursuant the Shareholders’ Agreement, dated March 13, 2013, between Höegh Lampung and PT Bahtera (“the PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement”) and the PT Höegh shareholder loan, we have a 100% economic interest in the PGN FSRU Lampung. The board of directors of PT Höegh manages PT Höegh, whereas the board of commissioners of PT Höegh supervise the operation and management of PT Höegh. Both such board of directors and board of commissioners must consist of between three and five members. Furthermore, Höegh Lampung may appoint three members to each, whereas PT Bahtera may appoint one member. A majority of present members of the board of directors or the board of commissioners, respectively, is required to pass any resolution. Höegh Lampung and PT Bahtera, in their capacity as shareholders, may also convene general meetings to consider resolutions. Resolutions concerning most matters require the approval of two-thirds of the issued shares for passage. However, resolutions concerning filing for bankruptcy, changes of control, disposal of certain assets or the creation of certain encumbrances require the approval of 75% of the issued shares for passage. When deadlock (as defined below) occurs, Höegh Lampung has the right to provide notice to, and subsequently confer with, PT Bahtera to resolve the matters giving rise to deadlock. Deadlock occurs under the PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement if (i) a quorum is not present at a meeting of the board of directors of PT Höegh, the board of commissioners of PT Höegh or the shareholders as a result of the absence of PT Bahtera or (ii) any resolution proposed at a meeting of the board of directors of PT Höegh, the board of commissioners of PT Höegh and/or the shareholders of PT Höegh is approved by the directors appointed by Höegh Lampung, the commissioners appointed by Höegh Lampung or Höegh Lampung, as applicable, but is not passed. The board of directors of PT Höegh is responsible for determining the amount of profits to be distributed each financial year. Once this determination is made, and prior to distributing net cash flow, the shares of Höegh Lampung are entitled to 65% of all dividends and distributions, and the shares of PT Bahtera are entitled to 35% of all dividends and distributions. Höegh Lampung may transfer its shares in PT Höegh to anyone, subject only to the requirement that, upon the request of PT Bahtera, Höegh Lampung procures from the same transferee or an Indonesian entity an offer to purchase PT Bahtera’s shares. Conversely, PT Bahtera may transfer its shares only to an affiliate it wholly owns and only if both Höegh Lampung and any applicable lenders consent to the transfer. At any time or in the event of a default, Höegh Lampung may require PT Bahtera to transfer its shares to Höegh Lampung or any other person it designates. Events of default only apply to PT Bahtera and occur if it fails to pay any amount due and payable under the shareholders’ agreement, becomes insolvent, materially breaches the shareholders’ agreement, becomes controlled by other people or breaches a financing requirement. 57 Additionally, in association with the PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement, PT Imeco Inter Sarana has guaranteed the performance and obligations of PT Bahtera. Furthermore, pursuant to the PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement, Höegh Lampung indemnifies PT Bahtera against liabilities it may suffer as a result of a breach of statutory duty or infringement of laws committed by PT Höegh, a failure by PT Höegh to pay tax, a dispute, litigation or arbitration relating to PT Höegh and all costs, losses, liabilities and claims relating to the PGN FSRU Lampung as a result of environmental damage. The PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement terminates when: · all of the shareholders agree in writing that the agreement should be terminated; · all of the issued shares in PT Höegh become directly or indirectly owned by the same person; or · Höegh Lampung requires the other shareholders to dissolve PT Höegh. PT Imeco Inter Sarana has guaranteed the obligations of PT Bahtera under the equity loan agreement pursuant to a deed of guarantee and indemnity. PT Höegh Shareholder Loan PT Bahtera, as borrower, entered into an equity loan agreement with Höegh Lampung, as lender, the proceeds of which were used to purchase PT Bahtera’s 51% interest in PT Höegh. In connection with this loan, as security, PT Bahtera collaterally assigned its equity interest and any dividends it may receive from PT Höegh to Höegh Lampung for as long as amounts remain outstanding. As a result of the above and the PT Höegh shareholders’ agreement, we will be entitled to all of the net cash flows from PT Höegh, after the payment of management, agency and local representation fees. Employees Other than our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we do not have any direct employees and rely on the key employees of Höegh Norway and Leif Höegh UK who perform services for us pursuant to the administrative services agreements. Höegh Norway and Höegh LNG Management also provide commercial and technical management services to our fleet pursuant to ship management agreements, the Gallant management agreement, a sub-technical support agreement and commercial and administration management agreements. Höegh Maritime Management also provides crew pursuant to a secondment agreement. Please read “—Maritime Personnel and Competence Development” and “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management.” 58 Competition The FSRU and LNG carrier industries are capital-intensive and operational expertise is critical, which create high barriers to entry. These industries are viewed as an integral part of the LNG industry. A company with a solid track record, knowledge of the market and an experienced, well-trained crew is preferred to a new entrant since the cost and impact of vessel downtime is significant for the customer. Our competitors in the FSRU and LNG carrier industries include BW Maritime Pte. Ltd., Dynagas LNG Partners LP, Excelerate Energy L.P., Exmar NV, GasLog Ltd., GasLog Partners LP, Golar LNG Limited, Golar LNG Partners LP, MOL, OLT and Teekay LNG Partners L.P. Classification, Inspection and Maintenance Every large, commercial seagoing vessel must be “classed” by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the vessel is “in class,” signifying that the vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of that particular class of vessel as laid down by that society and the applicable flag state. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake to conduct a survey on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned. Our FSRUs are “classed” as LNG carriers with the additional class notation REGAS-2 signifying that the regasification installations are designed and approved for continuous operation. To ensure continuous compliance, regular and extraordinary surveys of hull and machinery, including the power plant and any special equipment classed, are required to be performed by a class surveyor. For inspection of the underwater parts and for repairs related to intermediate inspections, vessels generally are drydocked, pursuant to a drydock cycle determined by the classification society and the flag state concerned. However, with FSRUs, certain inspections can be done without drydocking, as special measures are available to inspect the underwater parts. If any defects are found, the class surveyor will issue a “recommendation” which must be rectified by the vessel owner within prescribed time limits. The classification society also undertakes other surveys on request of the flag state and checks that regulations and requirements of that flag state are complied with. These surveys are subject to agreements made for each individual survey and flag state concerned. It is a condition for insurance coverage (i.e., the “seaworthiness” of the vessel) that the vessel is certified as “in class” with a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. Each of our vessels is certified by Det Norske Veritas GL, compliant with the ISM Code, and “in class.” The ship manager carries out inspections of the ships on a regular basis; both at sea and while the vessels are in port, while the classification societies carry out inspections and ship audits to verify conformity with manager’s reports. The results of these inspections, which are conducted both in port and underway, are presented in a report containing recommendations for improvements to the overall condition of the vessel, maintenance, improvements to the safety and environmental protection system and to crew welfare. Among others, based on these evaluations, the ship manager creates and implements a program of continuous maintenance and improvement for its vessel and its systems. Safety, Management of Ship Operations and Administration Safety is a top priority. Our vessels are operated in a manner intended to protect the safety and health of employees, the general public and the environment. We actively manage the risks inherent in our business and are committed to eliminating incidents that threaten safety, such as groundings, collisions, loss of containment and fire. We are also committed to reducing emissions and waste generation. We have established key performance indicators to facilitate regular monitoring of our operational performance. We set targets on an annual basis to drive continuous improvement, and we review performance indicators monthly to determine if remedial action is necessary to reach our targets. Höegh LNG’s shore staff performs a full range of technical, commercial and business development services for us. This staff also provides administrative support to our operations in accounting, finance and cash management, legal, commercial insurance and general office administration and secretarial services. Höegh LNG assists the vessel owners in managing ship operations and maintaining a technical department to monitor and audit ship manager operations. Höegh LNG hold its certifications for and works to the standards of ISO 9001 on Quality Management, ISO 14001 on Environmental Management and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services. Additionally, Höegh LNG hold all compliance documents and permits needed to manage and operate LNG carriers and FSRUs. Through Det Norske Veritas GL, Höegh LNG Management has obtained approval of its safety management systems as being in compliance with the ISM Code, on behalf of the appropriate flag state for the vessels in our fleet, which are flagged in Norway and Indonesia. Our vessels’ safety management certificates are being maintained through ongoing internal audits performed by Höegh LNG Management and through intermediate audits performed by the flag states or recognized classification societies on its behalf. To supplement our operational experience, Höegh LNG provides expertise in various functions critical to our operations. This affords an efficient and cost-effective operation and, pursuant to commercial and administration management agreements with Höegh Norway and a technical information and services agreement with Höegh Norway, access to accounting, finance and cash management, legal, commercial insurance and general office administration and secretarial services. Critical ship management or technical support functions that will be provided by Höegh LNG Management through its various offices around the world include: 59 · technical management, maintenance and drydocking; · crew management; · procurement, purchasing and forwarding logistics; · marine operations; · oil major and terminal vetting compliance; · shipyard supervision; · insurance; and · financial services. These functions are supported by onboard and onshore systems for maintenance, inventory, purchasing and budget management. In addition, Höegh LNG’s day-to-day focus on cost control will be applied to our operations. To some extent, the uniform design of some of our vessels and the adoption of common equipment standards should also result in operational efficiencies, including with respect to crew training and vessel management, equipment operation and repair and spare parts ordering. Maritime Personnel and Competence Development As of December 31, 2015, entities in the Höegh LNG group employed 494 maritime personnel who serve on our and Höegh LNG’s vessels. The Scandinavian employees are employed by Höegh LNG Management and non-Norwegian/Scandinavian employees, except Indonesian seafarers, are employed by Höegh Maritime Management. The Indonesian seafarers are employed by PT Höegh. Höegh LNG Management and Höegh Maritime Management will employ and train additional maritime personnel to assist us as we grow. Höegh LNG Management, the ISM-certified company, provides technical management services, including all necessary maritime personnel-related services, to the vessel owners pursuant to the ship management agreements. Please read “Item 7.B. Related Party Transactions—Ship Management Agreements and Sub-Technical Support Agreement.” We regard attracting and retaining competent and motivated seagoing personnel as a top priority. Like Höegh LNG, we offer our seafarers competitive employment packages and opportunities for personal and career development, which relates to a philosophy of promoting internally. The officers and crew operating our vessels are employed on individual employment contracts, which are based on International Transport Federation-Approved Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAS) and include conditions determined both by the negotiating parties and the flag states. We believe our relationships with these labor unions are good. Höegh LNG currently is a member of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association and is participating in some of the collective bargaining agreement negotiations with trade unions. Our commitment to training is fundamental to the development of the highest caliber of seafarers for our marine operations. Höegh LNG Management’s cadet training approach is designed to balance academic learning with hands-on training at sea. Höegh LNG Management uses only recognized training institutions in Norway and other countries. Höegh LNG Management has cadets from Europe, Asia and the United States. We believe that high-quality crew and training policies will play an increasingly important role in distinguishing the preferred LNG-experienced independent shipping companies from those that are newcomers to LNG and lacking in-house experienced staff and established expertise on which to base their customer service and safety operations. Risk of Loss, Insurance and Risk Management The operation of FSRUs, LNG carriers and other LNG infrastructure assets has inherent risks. These risks include mechanical failure, personal injury, collision, property loss, vessel or cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries or hostilities. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of marine disaster, including explosion, spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We believe that our present insurance coverage is adequate to protect us against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and that we maintain appropriate levels of environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage consistent with standard industry practice. However, not all risks can be insured, and there can be no guarantee that any specific claim will be paid, or that we will always be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates. 60 We have obtained hull and machinery insurance on all our vessels against marine risks, which include the risks of damage to our vessels, including claims arising from collisions with other vessels or contact with jetties or wharves, salvage or towing costs and also insure against actual or constructive total loss of any of our vessels. However, our insurance policies contain deductible amounts for which we will be responsible. We have also obtained loss of hire insurance to protect us against loss of income in the event the vessel cannot be employed due to damage that is covered under the terms of our hull and machinery insurance. Under our loss of hire policy, our insurer will pay us the hire rate agreed in respect of each vessel for each day, in excess of 20 deductible days, for the time that the vessel is out of service as a result of damage, for a maximum of 180 days. Protection and indemnity insurance, which covers our third-party legal liabilities in connection with our shipping activities, is provided by a mutual P&I club. This includes third-party liability and other expenses related to the injury or death of crewmembers, passengers and other third-party persons, loss or damage to cargo and other damage to other third-party property, including pollution arising from oil or other substances, and other related costs, including wreck removal. We have war risk insurance for all our vessels cover standard hull and machinery, protection and indemnity and loss of hire, if the event causing the damage is a war peril. In addition, war risk insurance will also compensate the owner for the total loss of the ship caused by intervention of a foreign state power, or if the ship is prevented from leaving a port or a similar limited area. Our current protection and indemnity insurance coverage is limited to $3.08 billion for all liabilities, except for pollution, which is limited to $1 billion per vessel per incident. We are a member of the Gard P&I Club, which is one of the 13 P&I clubs that comprises the International Group. Members of the International Group insure approximately 90% of the world’s commercial tonnage, and they have entered into a pooling agreement to reinsure each P&I club’s liabilities. P&I clubs provide the basic layer of insurance, which is currently $10 million. For members of the International Group, the International Group provides the next layer of insurance, covering liability between $10 million and $30 million. For liabilities above $30 million, the International Group has one of the world’s largest reinsurance contracts, with the maximum liability per accident or occurrence currently set at $3 billion. As a member of the Gard P&I Club, we are subject to a call for additional premiums based on the clubs’ claims record, as well as the claims record of all other members of the P&I clubs comprising the International Group. However, our P&I club has reinsured the risk of additional premium calls to limit our additional exposure. This reinsurance is subject to a cap, and there is the risk that the full amount of the additional call would not be covered by this reinsurance. The insurers providing the covers for hull and machinery, loss of hire and protection and indemnity have confirmed that they will consider the FSRUs as vessels for the purpose of providing insurance. We will use in our operations Höegh LNG’s thorough risk management program that includes, among other things, computer-aided risk analysis tools, maintenance and assessment programs, a seafarers competence training program, seafarers workshops and membership in emergency response organizations. We expect to benefit from Höegh LNG’s commitment to safety and environmental protection as certain of its subsidiaries assist us in managing our vessel operations. Höegh LNG Management has been certified under the standards reflected in ISO 9001 for quality assurance and is certified in accordance with the International Marine Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention on a fully integrated basis. Environmental and Other Regulation General Governmental and international agencies extensively regulate the carriage, handling, storage and regasification of LNG. These regulations include international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in the countries where our vessels now or, in the future, will operate or where our vessels are registered. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these regulations or the impact that these regulations will have on the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. Various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates for the operation of our vessels. We believe that we are substantially in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and have all permits, licenses and certificates required for our vessels. In many cases where permits are required from countries to whose jurisdictional waters our vessels have been deployed, the charter party or its customer is responsible for obtaining the permit. A variety of governmental and private entities inspect our vessels on both a scheduled and unscheduled basis. These entities, each of which may have unique requirements and each of which conducts frequent inspections, include classification societies, flag state, or the administration of the country of registry, charterers, terminal operators, LNG producers and local port authorities, such as the U.S. Coast Guard, harbor master or equivalent. Our vessels are subject to inspections on an unscheduled basis and we expect, in the future, they will also be subject to inspection by the applicable governmental and private entities on a scheduled basis. However, future noncompliance or failure to maintain necessary permits or approvals could require us to incur substantial costs or temporarily suspend operation of one or more of our vessels. 61 Höegh LNG Management is operating in compliance with the ISO Environmental Standard for the management of the significant environmental aspects associated with the ownership and operation of a fleet of FSRUs and LNG carriers. Höegh Norway received its ISO 9001 certification (Quality Management Systems) in May 2008, which also includes certification of Höegh LNG Management. Höegh Norway also received its certification to the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard, which requires that we and Höegh LNG Management commit managerial resources to act on our environmental policy through an effective management system. International Maritime Regulations of FSRUs and LNG Carriers The IMO is the United Nations’ agency that provides international regulations governing shipping and international maritime trade. The requirements contained in the International Safety Management Code (“ISM Code”) promulgated by the IMO govern our operations. Among other requirements, the ISM Code requires the party with operational control of a vessel to develop an extensive safety management system that includes, among other things, the adoption of a policy for safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for operating its vessels safely and also describing procedures for responding to emergencies. Höegh LNG Management holds a Document of Compliance under the ISM Code for operation of the GDF Suez Neptune and the GDF Suez Cape Ann, and PT Höegh holds a Document of Compliance under the ISM Code for operation of the PGN FSRU Lampung. All Documents of Compliance meet the standards set by the IMO. Vessels that transport gas, including FSRUs and LNG carriers, are also subject to regulation under the International Gas Carrier Code (the “IGC Code”), published by the IMO. The IGC Code provides a standard for the safe carriage of LNG and certain other liquid gases by prescribing the design and construction standards of vessels involved in such carriage. Compliance with the IGC Code must be evidenced by a Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Liquefied Gases in Bulk. Each of our vessels is in compliance with the IGC Code, and each of our newbuildings contracts requires that the vessel receive certification of compliance with applicable regulations before she is delivered. Noncompliance with the IGC Code or other applicable IMO regulations may subject a vessel owner or a bareboat charterer to increased liability, may lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and may result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. The IMO also promulgates ongoing amendments to SOLAS. SOLAS provides rules for the construction of and equipment required for commercial vessels and includes regulations for safe operation. It requires the provision of lifeboats and other life-saving appliances, requires the use of the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System, which is an international radio equipment and watchkeeping standard, afloat and at shore stations, and relates to the Treaty on the Standards of Training and Certification of Watchkeeping Officers (“STCW”), also promulgated by the IMO. Flag states that have ratified SOLAS and STCW generally employ the classification societies, which have incorporated SOLAS and STCW requirements into their class rules, to undertake surveys to confirm compliance. SOLAS and other IMO regulations concerning safety, including those relating to treaties on training of shipboard personnel, lifesaving appliances, radio equipment and the global maritime distress and safety system, are applicable to our operations. Noncompliance with these types of IMO regulations may subject us to increased liability or penalties, may lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and may result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. For example, the U.S. Coast Guard and European Union authorities have indicated that vessels not in compliance with the ISM Code are prohibited from trading in U.S. and European Union ports. In the wake of increased worldwide security concerns, the IMO amended SOLAS and added the ISPS Code as a new chapter to that convention. The objective of the ISPS Code, which came into effect on July 1, 2004, is to detect security threats and take preventive measures against security incidents affecting ships or port facilities. Höegh LNG Management has developed Security Plans and appointed and trained Ship and Office Security Officers, and all of our vessels have been certified to meet the ISPS Code. Please read “—Vessel Security Regulations” for a more detailed discussion about these requirements. The IMO continues to review and introduce new regulations. It is impossible to predict what additional regulations, if any, may be passed by the IMO and what effect, if any, such regulation may have on our operations. Air Emissions The MARPOL Convention is the principal international convention negotiated by the IMO governing marine pollution prevention and response. The MARPOL Convention imposes environmental standards on the shipping industry relating to oil spills, management of garbage, the handling and disposal of noxious liquids, sewage and air emissions. MARPOL 73/78 Annex VI “Regulations for the Prevention of Air Pollution” (“Annex VI”) entered into force on May 19, 2005, and applies to all ships, fixed and floating drilling rigs and other floating platforms. Annex VI sets limits on sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from ship exhausts, emissions of volatile compounds from cargo tanks and incineration of specific substances, and prohibits deliberate emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Annex VI also includes a global cap on sulfur content of fuel oil and allows for special areas to be established in different regions of the world with more stringent controls on sulfur emissions. The certification requirements for Annex VI depend on size of the vessel and time of periodical classification survey. Ships more than 400 gross tons and engaged in international voyages involving countries that have ratified the conventions, or ships flying the flag of those countries, are required to have an International Air Pollution Certificate (an “IAPP Certificate”). Annex VI came into force in the United States on January 8, 2009. All of our vessels currently have IAPP Certificates. 62 In March 2006, the IMO amended Annex I to the MARPOL Convention, including a new regulation relating to oil fuel tank protection, which became effective August 1, 2007. The new regulation applies to various ships delivered on or after August 1, 2010. It includes requirements for the protected location of the fuel tanks, performance standards for accidental oil fuel outflow, a tank capacity limit and certain other maintenance, inspection and engineering standards. IMO regulations also require owners and operators of vessels to adopt Ship Oil Pollution Emergency Plans. Periodic training and drills for response personnel and for vessels and their crews are required. On July 1, 2010, amendments proposed by the United States, Norway and other IMO member states to Annex VI took effect that require progressively stricter limitations on sulfur emissions from ships. As of January 1, 2012, fuel used to power ships may not contain more than 3.5% sulfur, with this cap decreasing over time. For fuels used in Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”), the cap settled at 1% in January 2015. For fuels used in all seas, the cap will settle at 0.5% on January 1, 2020. The European Directive 2005/33/EU, which came into effect January 1, 2010, bans the use of fuel oils containing more than 0.1% sulfur by mass by any merchant vessel while at berth in any European Union country. The European Commission continues to review directive 2005/33/EU after adopting a proposal to amend it to bring it into alignment with the latest IMO provisions on the sulfur content of marine fuels. Annex VI Regulation 14, which came into effect on January 1, 2015, set the same 0.1% sulfur limit in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, North America, and United States Caribbean Sea ECAs. Our FSRUs have achieved compliance through use of gas boil-off and low sulfur marine diesel oil in their diesel generators and boilers. The amendments also establish new stringent standards for emissions of nitrogen oxides from new marine engines, depending on their date of installation. Pursuant to further amendments adopted in April 2014, the Tier III Annex VI requirements for nitrogen oxides will apply to certain newbuild vessels with marine diesel engines that are constructed on or after January 1, 2016, and that operate in the North American or United States Caribbean Sea ECAs. As discussed in “—U.S. Clean Air Act” below, U.S. air emissions standards are now equivalent to these amended Annex VI requirements. Additional or new conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted in the future and could require the installation of emission control systems. Because our vessels are largely powered by means other than fuel oil we do not anticipate that any emission limits that may be promulgated will require us to incur any material costs for the operation of our vessels but that possibility cannot be eliminated. Ballast Water Management Convention The IMO has negotiated international conventions that impose liability for oil pollution in international waters and the territorial waters of the signatory to such conventions. For example, the IMO adopted an International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments (the “BWM Convention”) in February 2004. The BWM Convention’s implementing regulations call for a phased introduction of mandatory ballast water exchange requirements, to be replaced in time with a requirement for treatment. The BWM Convention will not become effective until 12 months after it has been adopted by 30 states, the combined merchant fleets of which represent not less than 35% of the gross tonnage of the world’s merchant shipping. Though this standard has not been met, the IMO has passed a resolution encouraging the ratification of the BWM Convention and calling upon those countries that have already ratified to encourage the installation of ballast water management systems (“BWMS”) on new ships. As referenced below, the U.S. Coast Guard issued new ballast water management rules on March 23, 2012, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) issued a new Vessel General Permit in March 2013 that contains numeric technology-based ballast water effluent limitations that will apply to certain commercial vessels with ballast water tanks. Under the requirements of the BWM Convention for units with ballast water capacity more than 5,000 cbm that were constructed in 2011 or before, ballast water management exchange or treatment will be accepted until 2016. From 2016 (or not later than the first intermediate or renewal survey after 2016), only ballast water treatment will be accepted by the BWM Convention. Once the convention has been ratified, installation of approved ballast water treatment systems will be required on the GDF Suez Neptune and the GDF Suez Cape Ann at the first drydocking after January 1, 2016. Given that ballast water treatment technologies are still at the developmental stage, at this time the additional costs of complying with these rules are unclear, but current estimates suggest that additional costs are not likely to be material. Bunkers Convention/CLC State Certificate The International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution 2001 (the “Bunker Convention”) entered into force in signatory states to the Convention on November 21, 2008. The Bunker Convention provides a liability, compensation and compulsory insurance system for the victims of oil pollution damage caused by spills of bunker oil. The Bunker Convention requires the vessel owner that is liable for pollution damage to pay compensation for such damage (including the cost of preventive measures) caused in the territory, including the territorial sea of a State Party, as well as its economic zone or equivalent area. Registered owners of any seagoing vessel and seaborne craft over 1,000 gross tonnage, of any type whatsoever, and registered in a State Party, or entering or leaving a port in the territory of a State Party, are required to maintain insurance that meets the requirements of the Bunker Convention and to obtain a certificate issued by a State Party attesting that such insurance is in force. The State Party-issued certificate must be carried onboard at all times. 63 P&I clubs in the International Group issue the required Bunkers Convention “Blue Cards” to enable signatory states to issue certificates. All of our vessels have received “Blue Cards” from their P&I club and are in possession of a CLC State-issued certificate attesting that the required insurance coverage is in force. Anti-Fouling Requirements In 2001, the IMO adopted the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling Systems on Ships (the “Anti-fouling Convention”). The Anti-fouling Convention, which entered into force on September 17, 2008, prohibits the use of organotin compound coatings to prevent the attachment of mollusks and other sea life to the hulls of vessels after September 1, 2003. Vessels of over 400 gross tons engaged in international voyages must obtain an International Anti-fouling System Certificate and undergo a survey before the vessel is put into service or when the anti-fouling systems are altered or replaced. We have obtained Anti-fouling System Certificates for all of our vessels, and we do not believe that maintaining such certificates will have an adverse financial impact on the operation of our vessels. Compliance Enforcement The flag state, as defined by the United Nations Convention on Law of the Sea, has overall responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of international maritime regulations for all ships granted the right to fly its flag. The “Shipping Industry Guidelines on Flag State Performance” evaluates flag states based on factors such as sufficiency of infrastructure, ratification of international maritime treaties, implementation and enforcement of international maritime regulations, supervision of surveys, casualty investigations and participation at the IMO meetings. As of January 2016, auditing of flag states that are parties to the SOLAS convention is mandatory and will be conducted under the IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code), which provides guidance on implementation and enforcement of IMO policies by flag states. These audits may lead the various flag states to be more aggressive in their enforcement, which may in turn lead us to incur additional costs. Criminal sanctions including fines and penalties and possible charges against company employees are possible under the laws of various countries. For instance, the European Union directive on ship source pollution imposes criminal sanctions for intentional, reckless or negligent pollution discharges by ships. Implementing laws in the EU could result in criminal liability for pollution from vessels in waters of European countries that adopt implementation legislation. Criminal liability for pollution may result in substantial penalties or fines and increased civil liability claims. Similar consequences are possible for spills in other countries that have enacted similar laws. U.S. Environmental Regulation of FSRUs and LNG Carriers Our vessels operating in U.S. waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. In some cases, these laws and regulations require governmental permits and authorizations before we may conduct certain activities. These environmental laws and regulations may impose substantial penalties for noncompliance and substantial liabilities for pollution that occurs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. As with the industry generally, our operations will entail risks in these areas, and compliance with these laws and regulations, which may be subject to frequent revisions and reinterpretation, increases our overall cost of business. Oil Pollution Act and CERCLA OPA 90 established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for environmental protection and clean-up of oil spills. OPA 90 affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade with the United States or its territories or possessions, or whose vessels operate in the waters of the United States, which include the U.S. territorial waters and the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone of the United States. CERCLA applies to the discharge of hazardous substances whether on land or at sea. While OPA 90 and CERCLA would not apply to the discharge of LNG, they may affect us because we carry oil as fuel and lubricants for our engines, and the discharge of these could cause an environmental hazard. Under OPA 90, vessel operators, including vessel owners, managers and bareboat or “demise” charterers, are “responsible parties” who are all liable regardless of fault, individually and as a group, for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from oil spills from their vessels. These “responsible parties” would not be liable if the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war. The other damages aside from clean-up and containment costs are defined broadly to include: 64 · natural resource damages and related assessment costs; · real and personal property damages; · net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, profits or earnings capacity; · net cost of public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or health hazards; and · loss of subsistence use of natural resources. Effective as of July 31, 2009, the U.S. Coast Guard adjusted the limits of OPA 90 liability to the greater of $2,000 per gross ton or $17.088 million for any double-hull tanker that is over 3,000 gross tons (subject to possible adjustment for inflation) (relevant to our and Höegh LNG’s vessels). These limits of liability do not apply, however, where the incident is caused by violation of applicable U.S. federal safety, construction or operating regulations, or by the responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. These limits likewise do not apply if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident or to cooperate and assist in connection with the substance removal activities. This limit is subject to possible adjustment for inflation. OPA 90 specifically permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for discharge of pollutants within their waters. In some cases, states, which have enacted their own legislation, have not yet issued implementing regulations defining vessel owners’ responsibilities under these laws. CERCLA, which also applies to owners and operators of vessels, contains a similar liability regime and provides for cleanup, removal and natural resource damages for releases of “hazardous substances.” Liability under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $0.5 million for each release from vessels not carrying hazardous substances as cargo or residue, and $300 per gross ton or $5 million for each release from vessels carrying hazardous substances as cargo or residue. As with OPA 90, these limits of liability do not apply where the incident is caused by violation of applicable U.S. federal safety, construction or operating regulations, by the responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct or if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident or to cooperate and assist in connection with the substance removal activities. OPA 90 and CERCLA each preserve the right to recover damages under existing law, including maritime tort law. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with OPA 90, CERCLA and all applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call. OPA 90 requires owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet the limit of their potential strict liability under OPA 90/CERCLA. Under the regulations, evidence of financial responsibility may be demonstrated by insurance, surety bond, self-insurance or guaranty. Under OPA 90 regulations, an owner or operator of more than one vessel is required to demonstrate evidence of financial responsibility for the entire fleet in an amount equal only to the financial responsibility requirement of the vessel having the greatest maximum liability under OPA 90/CERCLA. We currently maintain U.S. Coast Guard National Pollution Funds Center-issued three-year Certificates of Financial Responsibility supported by guarantees that we purchased from an insurance-based provider for all of our vessels. In response to the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the U.S. Congress is currently considering a number of bills that could potentially increase or even eliminate the limits of liability under OPA 90. Compliance with any new requirements of OPA 90 may substantially impact our cost of operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with any new regulatory initiatives or statutes. Additional legislation or regulation applicable to the operation of our vessels that may be implemented in the future could adversely affect our business and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. U.S. Clean Water Act The CWA prohibits the discharge of oil or hazardous substances in U.S. navigable waters unless authorized by a permit or exemption, and imposes strict liability in the form of penalties for unauthorized discharges. The CWA also imposes substantial liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages and complements the remedies available under OPA 90 and CERCLA. The EPA has enacted rules governing the regulation of ballast water discharges and other discharges incidental to the normal operation of vessels within U.S. waters. The rules require commercial vessels 79 feet in length or longer (other than commercial fishing vessels) (“Regulated Vessels”) to obtain a CWA permit regulating and authorizing such normal discharges. This permit, which the EPA has designated as the Vessel General Permit for Discharges Incidental to the Normal Operation of Vessels (the “VGP”), incorporates the current U.S. Coast Guard requirements for ballast water management, as well as supplemental ballast water requirements, and includes limits applicable to 26 specific discharge streams, such as deck runoff, bilge water and gray water. For each discharge type, among other things, the VGP establishes effluent limits pertaining to the constituents found in the effluent, including best management practices (the “BMPs”) designed to decrease the amount of constituents entering the waste stream. Unlike land-based discharges, which are deemed acceptable by meeting certain EPA-imposed numerical effluent limits, each of the 26 VGP discharge limits is deemed to be met when a Regulated Vessel carries out the BMPs pertinent to that specific discharge stream. The VGP imposes additional requirements on certain Regulated Vessel types that emit discharges unique to those vessels. Administrative provisions, such as inspection, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, are also included for all Regulated Vessels. 65 U.S. Ballast Water Regulation In the United States, two federal agencies regulate ballast water discharges, the EPA, through the VGP, and the U.S. Coast Guard, through approved BWMS. On March 28, 2013, the EPA published a new VGP to replace the existing VGP when it expired in December 2013. The new VGP includes numeric effluent limits for ballast water expressed as the maximum concentration of living organisms in ballast water, as opposed to the current BMPs requirements. The new VGP also imposes a variety of changes for non-ballast water discharges including more stringent BMPs for discharges of oil-to-sea interfaces in an effort to reduce the toxicity of oil leaked into U.S. waters. For certain existing vessels, the EPA has adopted a staggered implementation schedule to require vessels to meet the ballast water effluent limitations by the first drydocking after January 1, 2014 or January 1, 2016, depending on the vessel size. Vessels that are constructed after December 1, 2013 are subject to the ballast water numeric effluent limitations immediately upon the effective date of the new VGP. On June 20, 2012, the final rule issued by the U.S. Coast Guard establishing standards for the allowable concentration of living organisms in ballast water discharged in U.S. waters and requiring the phase-in of U.S. Coast Guard-approved BWMS went into effect. The final rule adopts ballast water discharge standards for vessels calling on U.S. ports and intending to discharge ballast water equivalent to those set in the BWM Convention. The final rule requires that ballast water discharge have fewer than 10 living organisms per milliliter for organisms between 10 and 50 micrometers in size. For organisms larger than 50 micrometers, the discharge must have fewer than 10 living organisms per cbm of discharge. The rule requires installation of U.S. Coast-Guard approved BWMs by new vessels constructed on or after December 1, 2013 and existing vessels as of their first drydocking after January 1, 2016. If U.S. Coast Guard-type approved technologies are not available by a vessel’s compliance date, the vessel may request an extension to the deadline from the U.S. Coast Guard. The U.S. Coast Guard expects to review the practicability of implementing a more stringent ballast water discharge standard. U.S. Clean Air Act The U.S. Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, requires the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds and other air contaminants. Our vessels are subject to vapor control and recovery requirements for certain cargoes when loading, unloading, ballasting, cleaning and conducting other operations in regulated port areas and emission standards for so-called “Category 3” marine diesel engines operating in U.S. waters. The marine diesel engine emission standards are currently limited to new engines beginning with the 2004 model year. On April 30, 2010, the EPA promulgated final emission standards for Category 3 marine diesel engines equivalent to those adopted in the amendments to Annex VI. The emission standards apply in two stages: near-term standards for newly-built engines apply to engines installed beginning on January 1, 2011, and long-term standards requiring an 80% reduction in nitrogen dioxides apply to engines installed beginning on January 1, 2016. Aligned with the Annex VI Regulation 14 requirements, beginning in January 2015, the EPA emission standards also limit sulfur content in fuel used in Category 3 marine vessels operating in the North America ECA to 1,000 ppm (or 0.1% sulfur by mass). Compliance with these standards may cause us to incur costs to install control equipment on our vessels in the future. Regulation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol entered into force. Pursuant to the Kyoto Protocol, adopting countries are required to implement national programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Currently, the emissions of greenhouse gases from international transport are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol. The Paris Agreement, which was announced by the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in December 2015, similarly does not cover international shipping. However, to the extent that individual countries increase their regulation of domestic greenhouse gas emissions as a result of the Paris Agreement, we may experience increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from regasification activities. Further, the IMO has subsequently reaffirmed its strong commitment to work to address greenhouse gas emissions from ships engaged in international trade. The IMO is evaluating various mandatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping, which may include market-based instruments or a carbon tax. The European Commission is pursuing a strategy to integrate maritime emissions into the overall European Union strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In accordance with this strategy, in April 2015 the European Parliament and Council adopted regulations requiring large vessels using European Union ports to monitor, report and verify their carbon dioxide emissions beginning in January 2018. On January 1, 2013, the IMO’s approved mandatory measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping went into force. These include amendments to Annex VI for the prevention of air pollution from ships adding a new Chapter 4 to Annex VI on energy efficiency requiring the Energy Efficiency Design Index (the “EEDI”) for new ships, and the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (the “SEEMP”) for all ships. Other amendments to Annex VI add new definitions and requirements for survey and certification, including the format for the International Energy Efficiency Certificate. The regulations apply to all ships of 400 gross tonnage and above. These new rules will likely affect the operations of vessels that are registered in countries that are signatories to Annex VI or vessels that call upon ports located within such countries. The implementation of the EEDI and the SEEMP standards could cause us to incur additional compliance costs. The IMO is also considering the development of a market-based mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions from ships, but it is impossible to predict the likelihood that such a standard might be adopted or its potential impact on our operations at this time. 66 In the United States, the EPA issued a final finding that greenhouse gases threaten public health and safety and has promulgated regulations that regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, but not from ships. The EPA may decide in the future to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from ships and has already been petitioned by the California Attorney General to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from oceangoing vessels. Other federal and state regulations relating to the control of greenhouse gas emissions may follow, including climate change initiatives that have recently been considered in the U.S. Congress. Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the IMO, the European Union, the United States or other countries where we operate, or any treaty adopted at the international level, that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to make significant financial expenditures that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. In addition, even without such regulation, our business may be indirectly affected to the extent that climate change results in sea level changes or more intense weather events. Other federal and state laws and regulations relating to the control of greenhouse gas emissions may come into effect, including climate change initiatives that have been considered in the U.S. Congress. Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the IMO, the European Union, the United States or other countries where we operate, or any treaty adopted at the international level to succeed the Kyoto Protocol, that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to make significant financial expenditures that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. In addition, even without such regulation, our business may be indirectly affected to the extent that climate change results in sea level changes or more intense weather events. Vessel Security Regulations Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Act of 2002 (the “MTSA”) came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to SOLAS created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter became effective in July 2004 and imposed various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the ISPS Code. The ISPS Code is designed to protect ports and international shipping against terrorism. After July 1, 2004, to trade internationally, a vessel must obtain an International Ship Security Certificate (an “ISSC”) from a recognized security organization approved by the vessel’s flag state. Among the various requirements are: ·onboard installation of automatic identification systems to provide a means for the automatic transmission of safety-related information from among similarly equipped ships and shore stations, including information on a ship’s identity, position, course, speed and navigational status; ·onboard installation of ship security alert systems, which do not sound on the vessel but only alert the authorities onshore; ·the development of vessel security plans; ·ship identification number to be permanently marked on a vessel’s hull; ·a continuous synopsis record kept onboard showing a vessel’s history, including the name of the ship, the state whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, the date on which the ship was registered with that state, the ship’s identification number, the port at which the ship is registered and the name of the registered owner(s) and their registered address; and ·compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to align with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from obtaining U.S. Coast Guard-approved MTSA vessel security plans provided such vessels have onboard an ISSC that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. Our ship manager has developed Security Plans and appointed and trained Ship and Office Security Officers, and each of the vessels in our fleet complies with the requirements of the ISPS Code, SOLAS and the MTSA. 67 Other Regulations International Conventions Our vessels may also become subject to the 2010 HNS Convention, if it is adopted by a sufficient number of countries. The Convention creates a regime of liability and compensation for damage from hazardous and noxious substances (“HNS”), including liquefied gases. The 2010 HNS Convention sets up a two-tier system of compensation composed of compulsory insurance taken out by vessel owners and an HNS Fund which comes into play when the insurance is insufficient to satisfy a claim or does not cover the incident. Under the 2010 HNS Convention, if damage is caused by bulk HNS, claims for compensation will first be sought from the vessel owner up to a maximum of 100 million from the supplementary foreign exchange reserve assets defined and maintained by the International Monetary Fund called Special Drawing Rights (“SDR”). If the damage is caused by packaged HNS or by both bulk and packaged HNS, the maximum liability is 115 million SDR. Once the limit is reached, compensation will be paid from the HNS Fund up to a maximum of 250 million SDR. The 2010 HNS Convention has not been ratified by a sufficient number of countries to enter into force, and we cannot estimate the costs that may be needed to comply with any such requirements that may be adopted with any certainty at this time. Indonesia Environmental Regulation of FSRUs In Indonesia, the environmental requirements of downstream business activity for the gas industry are regulated and supervised by the Government of Indonesia and controlled through business and technical licenses issued by the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources and BPH Migas, the regulatory agency for downstream oil and gas activity. Under Law 22, the Government of Indonesia has the exclusive rights to gas exploitation and activities carried out by private entities based on government-issued licenses. Companies engaging in downstream activities must comply with environmental management and occupational health and safety provisions related to operations. This includes obtaining environmental licenses and conducting environmental monitoring and reporting for activities that may have an impact on the environment such as the environmental impact assessment required under Law No. 32 of 2009 regarding Environmental Protection and Management. Failure to comply with these laws and obtain the necessary business and technical licenses may subject us to sanctions including suspension and/or freezing of the business and responsibility for all damages arising from any violation. We believe we are currently in compliance with these laws and hold all applicable licenses. However, these laws are subject to change, and we cannot predict any future changes in the regulatory environment, which could result in increased costs to our business. China Environmental Regulation of FSRUs Effective June 1, 2011, the Ministry of Transport of the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) promulgated regulations on Ship-Induced Marine Pollution Emergency Preparation and Response Management (the “Emergency Response Regulations 2011”) together with the Detailed Rules on the implementation of the Ship-Induced Pollution Response Agreement Regime issued by the Marine Safety Administration (the “MSA”) of the PRC. In addition, the Prevention and Control of Marine Pollution from Ships were implemented in 2010, which requires operators of (i) any ship carrying polluting and hazardous cargoes in bulk or (ii) any other ships above 10,000 gross tons to enter into a Ship Pollution Response Agreement with a pollution clean-up company approved by the MSA prior to the vessel entering any PRC port. Under the Emergency Response Regulations 2011, operators are liable for all costs and expenses for any pollution and must be paid or secured with a financial guarantee before the vessel leaves the port. While we believe we are in compliance with these regulations and have a Ship Pollution Response Agreement in place for our vessels, we cannot predict whether any accidental pollution may occur, whether it will cause us to incur costs and/or penalties or what the amount of any such costs or penalties may be. Egyptian Environmental Regulation of FSRUs The Egyptian Authority for Maritime Safety regulates vessels in the national waters of Egypt, including the Höegh Gallant. Emissions associated with the operation of the vessel may also be regulated by other agencies. To the extent that a change in law in Egypt (other than future laws requiring changes to the structure, machinery, boilers, appurtenances or spare parts of the Höegh Gallant) has an identifiable financial impact on the economics of the Höegh Gallant time charter, the terms of the time charter require the owner and charterer to meet to discuss in good faith and agree upon the necessary actions and changes to offset such impact. In-House Inspections Höegh LNG Management, our ship manager, regularly inspects our vessels for compliance with laws of host countries; both at sea and while in port. We also inspect and audit our vessels regularly to verify conformity with manager’s reports. These inspections result in a report containing recommendations for improvements to the overall condition of the vessel, maintenance, safety and crew welfare. Based in part on these evaluations, we create and implement a program of continual maintenance for our vessels and their systems. 68 Taxation of the Partnership The following are discussions of the material tax considerations applicable to us under U.S., United Kingdom, Marshall Islands, Norway, Singapore, Indonesia, Cyprus and Egypt law, respectively. This discussion is based upon provisions of the applicable tax law as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, regulations and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities or their interpretation may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. United States Taxation The following is a discussion of the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to us. This discussion is based upon provisions of the Code as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, existing final and temporary Treasury Regulations thereunder, and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities or their interpretation may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to us. Election to be Treated as a Corporation We have elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As such, we are subject to U.S. federal income tax to the extent we earn income from U.S. sources or income that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, unless such income is exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code or otherwise. Taxation of Operating Income Substantially all of our gross income is attributable, and we expect it will continue to be attributable, to the transportation, regasification and storage of LNG. Gross income generated from regasification and storage of LNG outside of the United States generally is not subject to U.S. federal income tax, and gross income generated from such activities in the United States generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net basis plus a branch profits tax. Gross income that is attributable to transportation that either begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States (“U.S. Source International Transportation Income”) is considered to be 50.0% derived from sources within the United States and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a gross basis as described below. Gross income attributable to transportation that both begins and ends in the United States (“U.S. Source Domestic Transportation Income”) is considered to be 100.0% derived from sources within the United States and generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net basis plus a branch profits tax. Gross income attributable to transportation exclusively between non-U.S. destinations will be considered to be 100.0% derived from sources outside the United States and generally is not subject to U.S. federal income tax. We are not permitted by law to engage in transportation that gives rise to U.S. Source Domestic Transportation Income, and we currently do not anticipate providing any regasification or storage services within the territorial seas of the United States. However, certain of our activities give rise to U.S. Source International Transportation Income, and future expansion of our operations could result in an increase in the amount of U.S. Source International Transportation Income, all of which could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless an exemption from U.S. taxation applies under Section 883 of the Code (the “Section 883 Exemption”). The Section 883 Exemption In general, the Section 883 Exemption provides that if a non-U.S. corporation satisfies the requirements of Section 883 of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder (the “Section 883 Regulations”), it will not be subject to the net basis and branch profits taxes or the 4.0% gross basis tax described below on its U.S. Source International Transportation Income. The Section 883 Exemption applies only to U.S. Source International Transportation Income and does not apply to U.S. Source Domestic Transportation Income. As discussed below, we believe that based on our current ownership structure, the Section 883 Exemption applies and we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. Source International Transportation Income. We qualify for the Section 883 Exemption for a particular taxable year if, among other things, we meet the following three requirements: · we are organized in a jurisdiction outside the United States that grants an equivalent exemption from tax to corporations organized in the United States with respect to the types of U.S. Source International Transportation Income that we earn (an “Equivalent Exemption”); 69 · we satisfy the Publicly Traded Test (as described below) or the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test (as described below); and · we meet certain substantiation, reporting and other requirements. In order for a non-U.S. corporation to meet the Publicly Traded Test, its equity interests must be “primarily traded” and “regularly traded” on an established securities market either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside the United States that grants an Equivalent Exemption. The Section 883 Regulations provide, in pertinent part, that equity interests in a non-U.S. corporation will be considered to be “primarily traded” on an established securities market in a given country if, with respect to the class or classes of equity relied upon to meet the “regularly traded” requirement described below, the number of units of each such class that are traded during any taxable year on all established securities markets in that country exceeds the number of units in such class that are traded during that year on established securities markets in any other single country. Equity interests in a non-U.S. corporation will be considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities market under the Section 883 Regulations if one or more classes of such equity interests that, in the aggregate, represent more than 50.0% of the combined vote and value of all outstanding equity interests in the non-U.S. corporation satisfy certain listing and trading volume requirements. These listing and trading volume requirements will be satisfied with respect to a class of equity interests if trades in such class are effected, other than in de minimis quantities, on an established securities market on at least 60 days during the taxable year and the aggregate number of units in such class that are traded on such established securities market during the taxable year is at least 10.0% of the average number of units outstanding in that class during the taxable year (with special rules for short taxable years). In addition, a class of equity interests will be considered to satisfy these listing and trading volume requirements if the equity interests in such class are traded during the taxable year on an established securities market in the United States and are “regularly quoted by dealers making a market” in such class (within the meaning of the Section 883 Regulations). Even if a class of equity interests satisfies the foregoing requirements, and thus generally would be treated as “regularly traded” on an established securities market, an exception may apply to cause the class to fail the regularly traded test for a taxable year if, for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year, one or more 5.0% unitholders (i.e., unitholders owning, actually or constructively, at least 5.0% of the vote and value of that class) own in the aggregate 50.0% or more of the vote and value of the class (which we refer to as the Closely Held Block Exception). For purposes of identifying its 5.0% unitholders, a non-U.S. corporation is entitled to rely on Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G filings with the SEC. In addition, an investment company that is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, is not treated as a 5.0% unitholder. The Closely Held Block Exception does not apply, however, in the event the corporation can establish that a sufficient proportion of such 5.0% unitholders are Qualified Shareholders (as defined below) so as to preclude other persons who are 5.0% unitholders from owning 50.0% or more of the value of that class for more than half the days during the taxable year. As set forth above, as an alternative to satisfying the Publicly Traded Test, a non-U.S. corporation may qualify for the Section 883 Exemption by satisfying the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test. A corporation generally will satisfy the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test if more than 50.0% of the value of its outstanding equity interests is owned, or treated as owned after applying certain attribution rules, for at least half of the number of days in the taxable year by: · individual residents of jurisdictions that grant an Equivalent Exemption; · non-U.S. corporations organized in jurisdictions that grant an Equivalent Exemption and that meet the Publicly Traded Test; or · certain other qualified persons described in the Section 883 Regulations (which we refer to collectively as Qualified Shareholders). We believe that we currently satisfy all of the requirements for the Section 883 Exemption, and we expect that we will continue to satisfy such requirements for all future taxable years. First, we are organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The U.S. Treasury Department has recognized the Republic of the Marshall Islands as a jurisdiction that grants an Equivalent Exemption with respect to the type of U.S. Source International Transportation Income we earn and are expected to earn in the future. Consequently, our U.S. Source International Transportation Income (including for this purpose, any such income earned by our joint ventures and subsidiaries) should be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation provided we meet either the Publicly Traded Test or the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test and we satisfy certain substantiation, reporting and other requirements. Our common units are traded only on the New York Stock Exchange, which is considered to be an established securities market. Although the matter is not free from doubt, based upon our current and expected cash flow and distributions on our outstanding equity interests, we believe that our common units represent more than 50.0% of the total value of all of our outstanding equity interests and therefore our equity interests are “primarily traded” on an established securities market for purposes of the Publicly Traded Test. 70 In addition, we believe that we satisfied the listing and trading volume requirements described previously for 2014 and 2015 and we expect that we will continue to satisfy such requirements for all future taxable years. Further, our partnership agreement provides that any person or group that beneficially owns more than 4.9% of any class of our units then outstanding generally will be treated as owning only 4.9% of such units for purposes of voting for directors. There can be no assurance that this limitation will be effective to eliminate the possibility that we will have any 5.0% unitholders for purposes of the Closely Held Block Exception. Nevertheless, we believe that our common units have not lost eligibility for the Section 883 Exemption as a result of the Closely Held Block Exception based upon the current ownership of our common units. Thus, although the matter is not free from doubt and is based upon our belief and expectations regarding our satisfaction of the factual requirements described above, we believe that we satisfied the Publicly Traded Test for 2014 and 2015, and we expect that we will satisfy the Publicly Traded Test for the current and all future taxable years. The legal conclusions described above are based upon legal authorities that do not expressly contemplate an organizational structure such as ours. In particular, although we have elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are organized as a limited partnership under Marshall Islands law. Accordingly, it is possible that the IRS would assert that our common units do not meet the “regularly traded” test. In addition, as described previously, our ability to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test depends upon factual matters that are subject to change. Should any of the factual requirements described above fail to be satisfied, we may not be able to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test. Furthermore, our board of directors could determine that it is in our best interests to take an action that would result in our not being able to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test in the future. In the event we are not able to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test for a taxable year, we may be able to satisfy the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test for that year provided Höegh LNG owns more than 50.0% of the value of our outstanding equity interests for more than half of the days in such year, Höegh LNG itself met the Publicly Traded Test for such year and Höegh LNG provided us with certain information that we need in order to claim the benefits of the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test. Based on representations made by Höegh LNG with respect to its present share ownership, exchange-traded shares and trading volumes, we believe Höegh LNG presently meets the Publicly Traded Test, and Höegh LNG has agreed to provide the information referenced above. However, there can be no assurance that Höegh LNG will continue to meet the Publicly Traded Test or be able to provide the information we need to claim the benefits of the Section 883 Exemption under the Qualified Shareholder Ownership Test. Further, the relative values of our equity interests are uncertain and subject to change, and as a result Höegh LNG may not own more than 50.0% of the value of our outstanding equity interests for any future year. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we would meet the Qualified Shareholder Stock Ownership Test based upon the ownership by Höegh LNG of an indirect ownership interest in us. The Net Basis Tax and Branch Profits Tax If we earn U.S. Source International Transportation Income and the Section 883 Exemption does not apply, the U.S. source portion of such income would be treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States (“Effectively Connected Income”) if we have a fixed place of business in the United States involved in the earning of U.S. Source International Transportation Income and substantially all of our U.S. Source International Transportation Income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation or, in the case of vessel leasing income, is attributable to a fixed place of business in the United States. In addition, if we earn income from regasification or storage of LNG within the territorial seas of the United States, such income would be treated as Effectively Connected Income. Based on our current operations, substantially all of our potential U.S. Source International Transportation Income is not attributable to regularly scheduled transportation or is received pursuant to vessel leasing, and none of our regasification or storage activities occur within the territorial seas of the United States. As a result, we do not anticipate that any of our U.S. Source International Transportation Income or income earned from regasification or storage will be treated as Effectively Connected Income. However, there is no assurance that we will not earn income pursuant to regularly scheduled transportation or vessel leasing attributable to a fixed place of business in the United States (or earn income from regasification or storage activities within the territorial seas of the United States) in the future, which would result in such income being treated as Effectively Connected Income. Any income we earn that is treated as Effectively Connected Income, net of applicable deductions, would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax (imposed at rates of up to 35.0%). In addition, a 30.0% branch profits tax could be imposed on any income we earn that is treated as Effectively Connected Income, as determined after allowance for certain adjustments, and on certain interest paid or deemed paid by us in connection with the conduct of our U.S. trade or business. Taxation of Gain from the Sale of a Vessel On the sale of a vessel that has produced Effectively Connected Income, we could be subject to the net basis U.S. federal corporate income tax as well as branch profits tax with respect to the gain recognized up to the amount of certain prior deductions for depreciation that reduced Effectively Connected Income. Otherwise, we would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain realized on the sale of a vessel, provided the sale is considered to occur outside of the United States under U.S. federal income tax principles. In general, a sale of vessel will be considered to occur outside of the United States for this purpose if title to the vessel, and risk of loss with respect to the vessel, pass to the buyer outside the United States. It is expected that any sale of a vessel by us will be considered to occur outside of the United States. 71 The 4.0% Gross Basis Tax If the Section 883 Exemption does not apply and the net basis tax does not apply, we would be subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal income tax on the U.S. source portion of our gross U.S. Source International Transportation Income, without benefit of deductions. Under the sourcing rules described above under “—Taxation of Operating Income”, 50.0% of our U.S. Source International Transportation Income would be treated as being derived from U.S. sources. Marshall Islands Taxation Because we, our operating subsidiary and our controlled affiliates do not, and do not expect to conduct business or operations in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, neither we nor our controlled affiliates will be subject to income, capital gains, profits or other taxation under current Marshall Islands law. As a result, distributions by our operating subsidiaries and our controlled affiliates to us will not be subject to Marshall Islands taxation. Norway Taxation The following is a discussion of the material Norwegian tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current tax authority practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in this legislation and practice may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the Norwegian tax considerations applicable to us. As we do not have any Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries, there is no Norwegian taxation by virtue of being resident in Norway. We, our operating company, our joint ventures and our non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries do not contemplate to hold board meetings in Norway, to have a board consisting of a majority of Norwegian residents or to pass resolutions in any board with a majority of Norwegian resident directors. Taxation of the Partnership and Non-Norwegian Incorporated Subsidiaries. As we are a partnership and do not expect to be managed and controlled within Norway nor carrying out business in Norway, we do not expect to be subject to taxation in Norway. While certain of our joint ventures and non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries will enter into agreements with Höegh Norway and Höegh LNG Management, Norwegian incorporated and resident companies, for the provision of certain management and administrative services, we believe that the terms of these agreements will not result in us, our operating company or any of our non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries being treated as being resident in the Norway or having a permanent establishment or carrying out business in Norway. As a consequence, we expect that neither our profits, the profits of our operating company or any of our joint ventures and non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries will be subject to Norwegian corporation tax. We do not currently anticipate that any of our joint ventures and non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries will be controlled or managed in Norway or have a permanent establishment or otherwise carry on business in Norway. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that any of our joint ventures and non-Norwegian incorporated subsidiaries will be subject to Norwegian corporation tax. United Kingdom Taxation The following is a discussion of the material United Kingdom tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current H.M. Revenue & Customs practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the United Kingdom tax considerations applicable to us. Taxation of the Partnership and non-United Kingdom Incorporated Subsidiaries. As we are a limited partnership and do not expect to be managed and controlled within the United Kingdom nor trade in the United Kingdom, we do not expect to be subject to taxation in the United Kingdom. While we and our operating company have entered into agreements with Höegh UK and Leif Höegh UK, companies incorporated and resident in the United Kingdom, for the provision of certain administrative services, we believe that the terms of these agreements will not result in us or our operating company being treated as being resident in the United Kingdom or having a permanent establishment or carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom. As a consequence, we expect that neither our profits nor the profits or our operating company will be subject to United Kingdom corporation tax. We do not currently anticipate that any of our other non-United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries will be controlled or managed in the United Kingdom or have a permanent establishment or otherwise carry on a trade in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that any of our non-United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries will be subject to United Kingdom corporation tax. 72 Taxation of United Kingdom Incorporated Subsidiaries. Höegh UK is incorporated in the UK and we anticipate will be centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom and therefore will be regarded for the purposes of United Kingdom tax as being resident in the United Kingdom and liable to United Kingdom corporation tax on its worldwide income and chargeable gains. As of December 31, 2015, the generally applicable rate of United Kingdom corporation tax was 20.0%. Höegh UK (and any other UK resident subsidiaries which we acquire) will generally be liable to tax at this rate on their income, profits and gains after deducting expenses incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business being undertaken. There is currently no United Kingdom withholding tax on distributions made by UK resident companies (such as Höegh UK). Singapore Taxation The following is a discussion of the material Singapore tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in the existing legislation and current practice may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the Singapore tax considerations applicable to us. Taxation of the Partnership and non-Singapore Incorporated Subsidiaries. As we are a limited partnership and do not expect to be managed and controlled within Singapore or carry on a trade or business in Singapore, we do not expect to be subject to taxation in Singapore. Similarly, as the non-Singapore incorporated subsidiaries are not managed and controlled within Singapore or carry on a trade or business in Singapore, the non-Singapore incorporated subsidiaries should not be subject to taxation in Singapore. Taxation of the Singapore Incorporated Subsidiary. Höegh Lampung is incorporated in Singapore, and we anticipate that it will be centrally managed and controlled in Singapore. As a result, Höegh Lampung will be regarded for the purposes of Singapore tax as being resident in Singapore and liable to Singapore corporate income tax on income accrued in or derived from Singapore or income received in Singapore from outside Singapore in respect of (i) gains or profits from any trade or business, (ii) income from investment such as dividends, interest and rental, (iii) royalties, premiums and any other profits from property and (iv) other gains of an income nature. The generally applicable rate of Singapore corporation tax is 17%. Höegh Lampung will generally be liable to tax at this rate on its income, profits and gains after deducting revenue expenses incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business being undertaken. Under Section 12(6) of the Income Tax Act, Chapter 134 of Singapore (“ITA”), the following payments are deemed to be derived from Singapore: ·any interest, commission, fee or any other payment in connection with any loan or indebtedness or with any arrangement, management, guarantee, or service relating to any loan or indebtedness which is: ·borne, directly or indirectly, by a person resident in Singapore or a permanent establishment in Singapore (except in respect of any business carried on outside Singapore through a permanent establishment outside Singapore or any immovable property situated outside Singapore); or ·deductible against any income accruing in or derived from Singapore; or ·any income derived from loans where the funds provided by such loans are brought into or used in Singapore. Payments falling within the two bullet points above and made by Höegh Lampung, would fall within Section 12(6) of the ITA. Unless exempted, such payments, where made to a person not known to Höegh Lampung to be a tax resident in Singapore, are generally subject to withholding tax in Singapore. 73 Indonesian Taxation The following is a discussion of the material Indonesia tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current Directorate General of Taxes of Indonesia (“DGT”) practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in the existing legislation and current practice may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the Indonesia tax considerations applicable to us. Taxation of the Partnership and non-Indonesian Incorporated Subsidiaries As we are a limited partnership and do not expect to be managed and controlled or domiciled within Indonesia or conduct business or carry out activities through a permanent establishment in Indonesia, we do not expect to be subject to taxation in the Indonesia. We do not currently anticipate that any of our other non-Indonesian incorporated subsidiaries will be controlled, managed or domiciled in Indonesia or conduct business or carry out activities through a permanent establishment in Indonesia. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that any of our non-Indonesian incorporated subsidiaries will be subject to Indonesian corporate income tax. Taxation of Operating Income PT Höegh’s main business activity in Indonesia is to provide the lease, operation, and maintenance of the PGN FSRU Lampung to PGN LNG. As PT Höegh was established in Indonesia, it is a resident taxpayer. Under Law No. 36 Year 2008 regarding Income Tax (“Income Tax Law” or “ITL”), PT Höegh is subject to Corporate Income Tax (“CIT”) of 25% on taxable income derived from the business activities performed. Therefore, any income generated by PT Höegh from PGN LNG in regards to the lease, operation, and maintenance of the PGN FSRU Lampung is subject to CIT of 25% (after deductions for allowable expenses in accordance with the ITL provisions). PT Höegh’s income would include any gain derived from the sale of the Mooring to PGN LNG which occurred in 2014, as governed by the time charter for the PGN FSRU Lampung. Taxable income is calculated on the basis of accounting profits as modified by certain tax adjustments. Any tax loss can be carried forward for a maximum period of 5 years. Loss carry back is not permitted in Indonesia. For tax purposes, costs incurred in relation to the acquisition of fixed assets are deductible (through depreciation) over a useful life of four to twenty years depending on the type of the fixed assets. In this regard, although the commercial useful life of a fixed asset is more than twenty years, such asset shall only be depreciated for a maximum of twenty years for tax purposes. Depreciation commences in the month when expenditures are incurred. The annual depreciation can be calculated either using the straight line method or double declining balance method. The ITL taxes the world-wide income of Indonesian tax residents; however, we do not anticipate that PT Höegh will generate income outside of Indonesia. Taxation of the Sale of the PGN FSRU Lampung to PGN LNG PGN LNG was granted an option to purchase the PGN FSRU Lampung from PT Höegh at specified prices as set out in the time charter for PGN FSRU Lampung. Any gain arising from the sale of the FSRU (i.e. sales price less tax book value) will be subject to CIT at the rate of 25% to PT Höegh. Withholding Taxes (“WHT”) PT Höegh is required to withhold: ·WHT under Article 23/26 of the ITL at the following rates: ·2% on payments for rent (other than land and/or building), fees for technical, management and other services to another resident taxpayer; ·15% on payments of dividends, interest and royalties to another resident taxpayer; and ·20% (or a reduced tax treaty rate) on payments relating to services, dividends, interest and royalties to a non-resident taxpayer. The reduced tax treaty rate is also subject to the availability of the Certificate of Domicile of the counter party in the form prescribed by the Indonesian tax regulations. ·WHT under Article 4(2) of the ITL at the rate of 10% for rent of land and/or buildings and at 3% to 6% on payments for construction services to another resident; and. ·WHT under Article 15 of the ITL at the rate of 1.2% on payments related to domestic shipping services. 74 Salaries and wages paid to resident employees are subject to Employee Income Tax (“EIT”) under Article 21 of the ITL at progressive rates of maximum 30%. Salaries paid to non-resident employees are subject to EIT under Article 26 of the ITL at the rate of 20% from the gross salary amount. PT Höegh is required to withhold and remit EIT on monthly basis. Value Added Tax (“VAT”) Any fees charged by PT Höegh for services provided to PGN LNG are subject to VAT at 10%. Such VAT on revenue is called Output VAT. The Output VAT can be offset with the VAT that PT Höegh pays for the procurement of goods and/or services (“Input VAT”). If the Output VAT exceeds the Input VAT in a particular month, the balance is required to be settled by PT Höegh. However, if the Input VAT exceeds the Output VAT, the VAT overpayment can be carried forward to the following month or a refund can be requested at year end. VAT of 10% would also be charged on the sale of the FSRU to PGN LNG, if applicable. Debt to Equity Ratio Requirement Under Minister of Finance (“MoF”) Regulation No. 169/PMK.010/2015 (“PMK-169”) Indonesian corporate taxpayers are subject to a limit in claiming financing costs as tax deduction where their debt to equity ratio exceeds 4:1. PMK 169 was effective from fiscal year 2016 onwards. PMK 169 stipulates that debt shall include long-term debt, short-term debt and trade payables which bear interest. Equity includes all items recorded under the equity section of the balance sheet based on the prevailing accounting standards and interest-free loans from related parties. In case the balance of equity is zero or negative, no financing costs of the taxpayer can be deducted. In case the actual ratio of the debt and equity exceeds 4:1 the deductible financing costs must be adjusted to an allowable amount based on the 4:1 ratio. Certain industries, including the infrastructure industry, are exempted from the debt to equity ratio requirements. The infrastructure industry is not defined in PMK-169, however, additional guidance is expected to be provided from the DGT in the future. Therefore it is not currently certain whether PT Hoegh will be classified as part of the infrastructure industry and be exempted from the requirements. Cyprus Taxation The following is a discussion of the material Cyprus tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current tax practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in the existing legislation and current practice may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the Cyprus tax considerations applicable to us. Taxation of profits and deduction for losses Höegh Cyprus, acting through its Egypt Branch, provides a FSRU on a time charter to EgyptCo. The time charter activities are operated in the Egypt Branch. Cyprus tax law exempts foreign branch profits from Cyprus corporate income tax, subject to certain exceptions. We have received a ruling from the Cyprus tax authorities confirming that this exemption applies for the profits in the Egypt Branch. Any tax losses incurred by the Egypt Branch can be used as a deduction against the taxable income of Höegh Cyprus for the same year. Any unutilized branch tax losses can be carried forward. A claw-back applies for previous losses utilized in the year in which the Egypt Branch becomes profitable. Losses clawed back through taxation of equal profits are restricted to losses offset with profits/losses being carried forward and exclude expired losses (i.e. exclude losses which were carried forward but not offset with profits due to the lapse of the 5 year carry forward period from the date the losses were incurred). WHT Cyprus does not levy any withholding taxes on interest and dividend payments to non-Cyprus tax residents (whether legal persons or individuals). As such, dividends and interest payments made by Höegh Cyprus should not be subject to WHT. 75 VAT Höegh Cyprus should not be subject to payable VAT on the time charter or on services sourced to the Egypt Branch. A ruling request has been submitted to the Cyprus tax authorities to confirm this point. Egyptian Taxation The following is a discussion of the material Egypt tax consequences applicable to us. This discussion is based upon existing legislation and current practice as of the date of this Annual Report. Changes in the existing legislation and current practice may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the Egypt tax considerations applicable to us. Taxation of Höegh Cyprus in Egypt – CIT and free zone The Egypt Branch is registered as a legal entity in Egypt in the Suez Public Free Zone. The Egypt Branch is subject to a 1% free zone fee on the revenues from activities permitted under its free zone license (e.g., the time charter hire paid by EgyptCo), but is exempt from CIT on profits from the same activities. WHT Profit repatriation from the Egypt Branch is exempt from WHT. The Egypt Branch has not drawn down debt with maturity less than three years and, as such, interest payments are not subject to WHT. Payments for services made to recipients that are not tax resident in Egypt are subject to 20% WHT, subject to reduction or elimination under applicable tax treaties. Sales tax As a free zone entity, the Egypt Branch is not subject to sales tax on the activities permitted under its free zone license and within the permitted location to operate (e.g., the time charter hire paid by EgyptCo and related acquired goods and services). Exit taxation The exit of the FSRU from Egypt after the end of the time charter would be considered a deemed sale of the FSRU for Egyptian tax purposes. The gains from the deemed sale would be subject to CIT (currently at 22.5%). The gain is calculated as the fair market value of the FSRU on the exit less the tax base value after deemed depreciation based on the assumption that it is considered as an asset. 76 C.Organizational Structure We are a publicly traded limited partnership formed on April 28, 2014. The diagram below depicts our simplified organizational and ownership structure. We listed our common units on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in August 2014 under the ticker symbol “HMLP.” We were formed under the law of the Marshall Islands and maintain our principal executive headquarters at Wessex House, 5th Floor, 45 Reid Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda. A full list of our significant operating and vessel-owning subsidiaries is included in Exhibit 8.1. D.Property, Plant and Equipment Other than the vessels in our fleet, we do not have any material property. 77 Item 4A.Unresolved Staff Comment Not applicable. Item 5.Operating and Financial Review and Prospects You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with “Item 3.A. Selected Financial Data” and “