Item 1A. Risk FactorsLimited partnership interests are inherently different from shares of capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which NEP is subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses and NEP has elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If any of the following risks were to occur, NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, it may not be able to pay distributions to its unitholders, the trading price of its common units could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in NEP.Operational RisksNEP has a limited operating history and its projects include renewable energy projects with a limited operating history. Such projects may not perform as expected.NEP's portfolio includes renewable energy projects that have, on average, been operating for fewer than five years. In addition, NEP expects that many of the renewable energy projects that it may acquire, including, without limitation, NEER ROFO projects, will not have commenced operations, will have recently commenced operations or otherwise will have a limited operating history. As a result, the assumptions and estimates regarding the performance of these projects are and will be made without the benefit of a meaningful operating history. The ability of NEP's projects that have a limited operating history to perform as expected will also be subject to risks inherent in newly constructed energy projects, including, without limitation, equipment performance below NEP's expectations, unexpected component failures and product defects, and generation and transmission system failures and outages. The failure of some or all of the projects to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders is affected by wind and solar conditions at its renewable energy projects.The amount of energy that a wind project can produce depends on wind speeds, air density, weather and equipment, among other factors. If wind speeds are too low, NEP's wind projects may not perform as expected or may not be able to generate energy at all and, if wind speeds are too high, the wind projects may have to shut down to avoid damage. As a result, the output from NEP's wind projects can vary greatly as local wind speeds and other conditions vary. Similarly, the amount of energy that a solar project is able to produce depends on several factors, including, without limitation, the amount of solar energy that reaches its solar panels. Wind turbine or solar panel placement, interference from nearby wind projects or other structures and the effects of vegetation, snow, ice, land use and terrain also affect the amount of energy that NEP's wind and solar projects generate. If wind, solar, meteorological, topographical or other conditions at NEP's wind or solar projects are less conducive to energy production, NEP's projects may not produce the amount of energy NEP expects. The failure of some or all of NEP's projects to perform according to NEP's expectations could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, without limitation, the impact of severe weather.Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity, natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of water, and require NEP to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. Furthermore, NEP's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events and abnormal levels of precipitation. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado, flood, earthquake or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent NEP from operating its business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, without limitation, NEP's wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generating facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, NEP’s results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and NEP's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected.13As a result of the Texas pipelines acquisition, NEP's operations and business have substantially changed. NEP's expansion into the natural gas pipeline industry may not be successful.The Texas pipelines acquisition substantially expanded NEP's business by adding substantial natural gas pipeline assets and operations to its renewable energy assets and operations. Prior to the Texas pipelines acquisition, NEP's operations consisted solely of long-term contracted wind and solar projects. NEP’s operations did not previously include developing and operating natural gas pipelines, which requires different operating strategies and managerial expertise. Furthermore, the services provided by the Texas pipelines are subject to additional or different regulatory requirements.NEP's ability to manage its business and growth will require it to apply its operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to the Texas pipeline business. NEP may also encounter risks, costs and expenses associated with any liabilities, and use more financial resources on integration activities than NEP anticipates. NEP may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of the Texas pipelines into its existing operations, successfully manage this new line of business or realize the expected economic benefits of the Texas pipelines, which may have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may fail to realize expected profitability or growth, and may incur unanticipated liabilities, as a result of the Texas pipelines acquisition.There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the Texas pipelines acquisition, including, without limitation, the failure to realize expected profitability or growth; the incurrence of liabilities or other compliance costs related to environmental or regulatory matters, including potential liabilities that may be imposed without regard to fault or the legality of conduct; and the incurrence of unanticipated liabilities and costs for which insurance or indemnification is unavailable or inadequate. If these risks or other unanticipated liabilities were to materialize, any desired benefits of the Texas pipelines acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and the Texas pipelines acquisition could accordingly have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP is pursuing the expansion of natural gas pipelines in its portfolio that will require up-front capital expenditures and expose NEP to project development risks. NEP is pursuing the expansion of natural gas pipelines in its portfolio. The development of pipeline expansion projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. When NEP undertakes these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. There may be cost overruns and construction difficulties. In addition NEP may agree to pay liquidated damages to committed shippers if an expansion project does not achieve commercial operations before a specified date that the parties may agree to in advance. Any cost overruns NEP experiences or liquidated damages NEP pays could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. In addition, NEP may choose to finance all or a portion of the development costs of any expansion project through the sale of additional common units, which could result in dilution to NEP’s unitholders. Moreover, NEP's revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a significant expansion project, or at all. If NEP undertakes an expansion of one of the pipelines in the portfolio, the construction may occur over an extended period of time and NEP will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. Accordingly, if NEP pursues expansion projects, NEP's efforts may not result in additional long-term contracted revenue streams that increase the amount of cash available to execute NEP's business plan and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's ability to maximize the productivity of the Texas pipeline business and to complete potential pipeline expansion projects is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production in the Texas pipelines’ areas of operation.The natural gas pipelines in NEP's portfolio have more capacity available than is under long-term firm transport contracts. Low prices for natural gas could adversely affect development of additional natural gas reserves and production that is accessible by the Texas pipelines’ assets. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to the Texas pipelines’ transmission systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Additionally, the competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could reduce the amount of natural gas supply for its customers or low natural gas prices could cause producers to determine in the future that drilling activities in areas outside of the current areas of operation of the Texas pipelines are strategically more attractive to them. A reduction in the natural gas volumes supplied by producers could make it more challenging to increase the amount of the Texas pipelines’ capacity that is under long-term firm transport contracts or that shippers otherwise pay to use or have access to the pipeline capacity, and it may decrease the likelihood that NEP will continue to pursue some or all of the potential pipeline expansion projects NEP is pursuing. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.14Operation and maintenance of renewable energy projects involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power outages, reduced output, personal injury or loss of life.There are risks associated with the operation of NEP's renewable energy projects. These risks include:•breakdown or failure of, or damage to, turbines, blades, blade attachments, solar panels, mirrors and other equipment, which could reduce a project’s energy output or result in personal injury or loss of life;•catastrophic events, such as fires, earthquakes, severe weather, tornadoes, ice or hail storms or other meteorological conditions, landslides and other similar events beyond NEP's control, which could severely damage or destroy all or a part of a project, reduce its energy output or result in personal injury or loss of life;•technical performance below expected levels, including, without limitation, the failure of wind turbines, solar panels, mirrors and other equipment to produce energy as expected due to incorrect measures of expected performance provided by equipment suppliers;•increases in the cost of operating the projects, including, without limitation, costs relating to labor, equipment, insurance and real estate taxes;•operator or contractor error or failure to perform;•serial design or manufacturing defects, which may not be covered by warranty;•extended events, including, without limitation, force majeure, under certain PPAs that may give rise to a termination right of the customer under such a PPA (renewable energy counterparty);•failure to comply with permits and the inability to renew or replace permits that have expired or terminated;•the inability to operate within limitations that may be imposed by current or future governmental permits;•replacements for failed equipment, which may need to meet new interconnection standards or require system impact studies and compliance that may be difficult or expensive to achieve;•land use, environmental or other regulatory requirements;•disputes with the BLM, other owners of land on which NEP's projects are located or adjacent landowners;•changes in law, including, without limitation, changes in governmental permit requirements;•government or utility exercise of eminent domain power or similar events; and•existence of liens, encumbrances and other imperfections in title affecting real estate interests.These and other factors could require NEP to shut down its wind or solar projects. These factors could also degrade equipment, reduce the useful life of interconnection and transmission facilities and materially increase maintenance and other costs. Unanticipated capital expenditures associated with maintaining or repairing NEP's projects may reduce profitability.In addition, replacement and spare parts for solar panels, wind turbines and other key equipment may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. For example, the projects in NEP's portfolio do not always hold spare substation main transformers and, if any of these projects had to replace any of such transformers, they would be unable to sell energy until replacement equipment was installed. Each solar and wind project requires a specific transformer design and, if it does not have an acceptable spare available, it would need to order a replacement. Order lead times can be lengthy, potentially reaching up to one year.Such events or actions could significantly decrease or eliminate the revenues of a project, significantly increase its operating costs, cause a default under NEP's financing agreements or give rise to damages or penalties to a renewable energy contract counterparty, another contractual counterparty, a governmental authority or other third parties or cause defaults under related contracts or permits. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The wind turbines at some of NEP's projects and some of NEER's ROFO projects are not generating the amount of energy estimated by their manufacturers’ original power curves, and the manufacturers may not be able to restore energy capacity at the affected turbines. Wind turbine generators for certain of NEP's projects are not generating the amount of energy they should be according to the turbine manufacturer’s original power curves. In addition, NEP has been advised that the wind turbine generators of certain NEER ROFO projects are not generating the amount of energy they should be according to the turbine manufacturer’s original power curves. NEP expects that the turbine manufacturer will undertake a combination of modifications to improve the electricity generation to within the manufacturer's guaranteed levels with respect to certain affected turbines. NEP does not expect that the energy generation with respect to the remaining affected turbines will be able to be restored to within guaranteed levels, although NEP expects some incremental improvements.Although NEP's projections assume that these efforts will restore or incrementally improve the energy generation of the affected turbines as described above, the proposed efforts may fail to restore the energy generation as expected, if at all, or these or other turbines may experience additional energy generation deficiencies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.15NEP depends on the Texas pipelines and certain of the renewable energy projects in its portfolio for a substantial portion of its anticipated cash flows.NEP depends on the Texas pipelines and certain of the renewable energy projects in its portfolio for a substantial portion of its anticipated cash flows. For example, in the most recently completed fiscal year the Texas pipelines and Genesis provided a significant portion of NEP’s net income plus interest expense, income tax expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Consequently, the impairment or loss of any one or more of those projects or pipelines in NEP's portfolio could materially and, depending on the relative size of the affected projects or pipelines, disproportionately reduce NEP’s cash flows and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Terrorist or similar attacks could impact NEP's projects or surrounding areas and adversely affect its business.Terrorists have attacked energy assets such as substations and related infrastructure in the past and may attack them in the future. Any attacks on NEP’s projects or the facilities of third parties on which its projects rely could severely damage such projects, disrupt business operations, result in loss of service to customers and require significant time and expense to repair. Additionally, energy-related facilities, such as substations and related infrastructure, are protected by limited security measures, in most cases only perimeter fencing. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, NEP may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance NEP's protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.Cyber-attacks, including, without limitation, those targeting information systems or electronic control systems used to operate NEP's energy projects (including, without limitation, generation transmission tie lines) and the transmission and other facilities of third parties on which NEP's projects rely, could severely disrupt business operations and result in loss of service to customers and significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. Projects in NEP's portfolio, as well as projects it may acquire and the transmission and other facilities of third parties on which NEP's projects rely, may be targets of terrorist acts and affected by responses to terrorist acts, each of which could fully or partially disrupt the ability of NEP's projects to operate. To the extent such acts equate to a force majeure event under NEP's PPAs, the renewable energy counterparty may terminate such PPAs if such a force majeure event continues for a period ranging from 12 months to 36 months as specified in the applicable agreement. A terrorist act or similar attack could significantly decrease revenues or result in significant reconstruction or remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's energy production and pipeline transportation capability may be substantially below its expectations if severe weather or a natural disaster or meteorological conditions damage its turbines, solar panels, pipelines or other equipment or facilities.Severe weather or a natural disaster or meteorological conditions could damage or require NEP to shut down its turbines, solar panels, pipelines or other equipment or facilities (including, without limitation, generation transmission tie lines). Such damage or a shutdown could impede NEP's ability to operate its projects, or decrease its energy production levels, pipeline transportation capability and revenues. To the extent these conditions equate to a force majeure event under NEP's PPAs, the renewable energy contract counterparty may terminate such PPAs if such a force majeure event continues for a period ranging from 12 months to 36 months as specified in the applicable PPA. These conditions could also damage or reduce the useful life of interconnection and transmission facilities of a project or of third parties relied upon by NEP's projects and increase maintenance costs. For example, Genesis is located in an area of California that has experienced substantial seismic activity, the reoccurrence of which could cause significant physical damage to Genesis’ facilities and the surrounding energy transmission infrastructure. Replacement and spare parts for solar panels, wind turbines and key pieces of equipment may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. In certain instances, NEP's renewable energy projects would be unable to sell energy until a replacement part is installed. If NEP experiences a prolonged interruption at one of its renewable energy projects or pipelines, energy production or gas transportation capability would decrease. Production of less energy than expected, or the ability to transport natural gas at less than expected levels, due to these or other conditions could reduce NEP's revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The ability of NEP to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. NEP's insurance coverage does not insure against all potential risks and it may become subject to higher insurance premiums.NEP is exposed to numerous risks inherent in the operation of wind and solar projects and natural gas pipelines, including, without limitation, equipment failure, manufacturing defects, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, sabotage, vandalism and environmental risks. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in NEP being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, including, without limitation, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, property damage, fines and penalties. Further, with respect to any future acquisitions of any projects that are under construction or development, NEP is, or will be, exposed to risks inherent in the construction or development of these projects.NEP shares insurance coverage with NEE and its affiliates, for which NEP reimburses NEE. NEE currently maintains liability insurance coverage for itself and its affiliates, including NEP, which covers legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury, 16personal injury or property damage, including, without limitation, resulting loss of use, to third parties. NEE also maintains coverage for itself and its affiliates, including NEP, for physical damage to assets and resulting business interruption, including, without limitation, damage caused by terrorist acts. However, such policies do not cover all potential losses and coverage is not always available in the insurance market on commercially reasonable terms. To the extent NEE or any of its affiliates experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of NEP's coverage for potential losses may be decreased.NEE may also reduce or eliminate such coverage at any time. NEP may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount NEP desires at reasonable rates and NEP may elect to self-insure a portion of its portfolio. The insurance coverage NEP does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain risks or all potential losses. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to NEE. NEE’s insurance policies are subject to annual review by its insurers and may not be renewed on similar or favorable terms, including, without limitation, coverage, deductibles or premiums, or at all. The ability of NEE to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. If insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, NEP may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. A loss for which NEP is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Warranties provided by the suppliers of equipment for NEP's projects may be limited by the ability of a supplier to satisfy its warranty obligations, or by the terms of the warranty, so the warranties may be insufficient to compensate NEP for its losses.NEP expects to benefit from various warranties, including, without limitation, product quality and performance warranties, provided by suppliers in connection with the purchase of equipment necessary to operate its projects. NEP's suppliers may fail to fulfill their warranty obligations. Even if a supplier fulfills its obligations, the warranty may not be sufficient to compensate NEP for all of its losses. In addition, these warranties generally expire within two to five years after the date each equipment item is delivered or commissioned and are subject to liability limits. If installation is delayed, NEP may lose all or a portion of the benefit of a warranty. If NEP seeks warranty protection and a supplier is unable or unwilling to perform its warranty obligations, whether as a result of its financial condition or otherwise, or if the term of the warranty has expired or a liability limit has been reached, there may be a reduction or loss of warranty protection for the affected equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Supplier concentration at certain of NEP's projects may expose it to significant credit or performance risks.NEP often relies on a single supplier or a small number of suppliers to provide equipment, technology and other services required to operate its projects. If any of these suppliers cannot perform under their agreements with NEP, NEP may need to seek alternative suppliers. Alternative suppliers, products and services may not perform similarly and replacement agreements may not be available on favorable terms or at all. NEP may be required to make significant capital expenditures to remove, replace or redesign equipment that cannot be supported or maintained by replacement suppliers. A number of factors, including, without limitation, the financial condition of NEP's suppliers, may impact their ability to perform under NEP's supply agreements. The failure of any supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations to NEP could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP relies on interconnection and transmission facilities of third parties to deliver energy from its renewable energy projects and, if these facilities become unavailable, NEP's wind and solar projects may not be able to operate or deliver energy.NEP depends on interconnection and transmission facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver energy from its wind and solar projects. In addition, some of the renewable energy projects in NEP's portfolio share essential facilities, including, without limitation, interconnection and transmission facilities, with projects that are owned by other affiliates of NEE. Many of the interconnection and transmission arrangements for the projects in NEP's portfolio are governed by separate agreements with the owners of the transmission or distribution facilities. Congestion, emergencies, maintenance, outages, overloads, requests by other parties for transmission service, actions or omissions by other projects with which NEP shares facilities and other events beyond NEP's control could partially or completely curtail deliveries of energy by its renewable energy projects and increase project costs. Southern California Edison requested approval from the California Public Utilities Commission to upgrade four transmission circuits over a 36 to 48 month time period expected to begin between 2017 and 2018, which may limit the ability of Genesis to deliver its full output capability into the electric grid during that time period. In addition, any termination of a project’s interconnection or transmission arrangements or non-compliance by an interconnection provider, the owner of shared facilities or another third party with its obligations under an interconnection or transmission arrangement may delay or prevent NEP's renewable energy projects from delivering energy in a manner that entitles it to receive revenue. If the interconnection or transmission arrangement for a project is terminated, NEP may not be able to replace it on similar terms to the existing arrangement, or at all, or NEP may experience significant delays or costs in connection with such replacement. Moreover, if NEP acquires any renewable energy projects that are under construction or development, a failure or delay in the construction or development of interconnection or transmission facilities could delay the completion of the project. The unavailability of interconnection, transmission or shared facilities could adversely affect the operation of its renewable energy projects and the revenues received, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.17NEP's business is subject to liabilities and operating restrictions arising from environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.NEP's projects are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things:•the protection of wildlife, including, without limitation, migratory birds, bats and threatened and endangered species, such as desert tortoises, or protected species such as eagles, and other protected plants or animals whose presence or movements often cannot be anticipated or controlled;•the storage, handling, use and transportation of natural gas as well as other hazardous or toxic substances and other regulated substances, materials, and/or chemicals;•releases of hazardous materials into the environment and the prevention of and responses to releases of hazardous materials into soil and groundwater; •federal, state, provincial or local land use, zoning, building and transportation laws and requirements, which may mandate conformance with sound levels, radar and communications interference, hazards to aviation or navigation, or other potential nuisances such as the flickering effect caused when rotating wind turbine blades periodically cast shadows through openings such as the windows of neighboring properties, which is known as shadow flicker;•the presence or discovery of archaeological, religious or cultural resources at or near NEP's operations; and•the protection of workers’ health and safety.If NEP's projects do not comply with such laws, regulations or requirements, NEP may be required to pay penalties or fines, or curtail or cease operations of the affected projects. Violations of environmental and other laws, regulations and permit requirements, including, without limitation, certain violations of laws protecting wetlands, migratory birds, bald and golden eagles and threatened or endangered species, may also result in criminal sanctions or injunctions.NEP's projects also carry inherent environmental, health and safety risks, including, without limitation, the potential for related civil litigation, regulatory compliance actions, remediation orders, fines and other penalties. For instance, NEP's projects could malfunction or experience other unplanned events that cause spills or emissions that exceed permitted levels, resulting in personal injury, fines or property damage.Additionally, NEP may be held liable for related investigatory and cleanup costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation, for any property where there has been a release or potential release of a hazardous substance, regardless of whether NEP knew of or caused the release or potential release. NEP could also be liable for other costs, including, without limitation, fines, personal injury or property damage or damage to natural resources. In addition, some environmental laws place a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government as security for damages and costs it may incur for contamination and cleanup. Contained or uncontained hazardous substances on, under or near NEP's projects, regardless of whether it owns or leases the sited property, or the inability to remove or otherwise remediate such substances, may restrict or eliminate NEP's ability to operate its projects.Each of NEP's projects covers a large area and, as such, archaeological discoveries could occur at its projects at any time. Such discoveries could result in the restriction or elimination of NEP's ability to operate any affected project. Utility-scale projects and operations may cause impacts to certain landscape views, trails, or traditional cultural activities. Such impacts may trigger claims from citizens that a NEP project and/or its operations are infringing upon their legal rights or other claims, resulting in the restriction or elimination of NEP's ability to operate the affected project.Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and NEP expects this trend to continue. Significant capital and operating costs may be incurred at any time to keep NEP's projects in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. If it is not economical to make those expenditures, or if NEP violates any of these laws and regulations, it may be necessary to retire the affected project or restrict or modify its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's renewable energy projects may be adversely affected by legislative changes or a failure to comply with applicable energy regulations.NEP's renewable energy project entities and renewable energy contract counterparties are subject to regulation by U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local authorities. The wholesale sale of electric energy in the continental U.S. states, other than portions of Texas, is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and the ability of a U.S. project entity to charge the negotiated rates contained in its PPA is subject to that project entity’s maintenance of its general authorization from the FERC to sell electricity at market-based rates. The FERC may revoke a U.S. project entity’s market-based rate authorization if it determines that the U.S. project entity can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, has engaged in abusive affiliate transactions or fails to meet compliance requirements associated with such rates. The negotiated rates entered into under the U.S. Project Entities’ PPAs could be changed by the FERC if the FERC determines such change is in the public interest. While this threshold public interest determination would require a finding by the FERC that the contract rate seriously harms the consuming public under applicable U.S. Supreme Court precedent, if the FERC decreases the prices paid to NEP for energy delivered under any of its 18PPAs, NEP’s revenues could be below its projections and its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders could be materially adversely affected.The renewable energy industry in Ontario is subject to provincial government regulation. A change in government could result in a provincial government that is not supportive of renewable energy projects. Changing political priorities or a change in government in Ontario could affect the ability of the IESO to perform its obligations under NEP's FIT contracts and RESOP contracts or could result in the cancellation of its FIT contracts or RESOP contracts. The provincial government may fail to pass legislation to preserve sufficient funds for payments to various Ontario projects, including NEP's, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's renewable energy project entities, with the exceptions of Conestogo, Sombra and Moore, are subject to the mandatory reliability standards of the NERC. The NERC reliability standards are a series of requirements that relate to maintaining the reliability of the North American bulk electric system and cover a wide variety of topics, including, without limitation, physical and cybersecurity of critical assets, information protocols, frequency response and voltage standards, testing, documentation and outage management. If NEP fails to comply with these standards, NEP could be subject to sanctions, including, without limitation, substantial monetary penalties. Although NEP's U.S. Project Entities are not subject to state utility rate regulation because they sell energy exclusively on a wholesale basis, NEP is subject to other state regulations that may affect NEP's projects’ sale of energy and operations. Changes in state regulatory treatment are unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The structure of the industry and regulation in the U.S. and Canada is currently, and may continue to be, subject to challenges and restructuring proposals. Additional regulatory approvals may be required due to changes in law or for other reasons. NEP expects the laws and regulation applicable to its business and the energy industry generally to be in a state of transition for the foreseeable future. Changes in the structure of the industry or in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of the Texas pipeline entities' assets, or a change in law or regulatory policy, could result in increased regulation of these assets, which could have material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The Texas pipelines are intrastate natural gas transportation pipelines and natural gas-gathering facilities. Unlike interstate gas transportation facilities, intrastate natural gas transportation pipelines and natural gas gathering facilities are exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA), except that intrastate gas transportation pipelines may provide interstate gas transportation services subject to FERC regulation pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA).State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some cases, non-discriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. The distinction between the FERC-regulated transmission pipeline services and federally-unregulated intrastate and gathering services has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are subject to its jurisdiction on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of NEP's intrastate pipeline and gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC or the courts. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility or services provided by it are not exempt from the FERC regulation under the NGA, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs and, depending upon the facility in question, have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. In addition, if any of the Texas pipelines were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, that could result in the imposition of civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such services in excess of the rate established by the FERC.In addition, the rates, terms and conditions of some of the transportation services provided by the Eagle Ford pipeline and NET Mexico pipeline are subject to the FERC regulation under Section 311 of the NGPA. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation must be fair and equitable, and amounts collected in excess of fair and equitable rates are subject to refund with interest.NEP may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any necessary pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures.The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop pipeline integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to:•perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;•identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could affect a high consequence area;•improve data collection, integration and analysis;•repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and19•implement preventive and mitigating actions.NEP's actual implementation costs may be affected by industry-wide demand for the associated contractors and service providers. Additionally, should NEP fail to comply with DOT regulations, NEP could be subject to penalties and fines.The Texas pipelines’ operations could incur significant costs if the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or the Railroad Commission of Texas adopts more stringent regulations. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (2011 Pipeline Safety Act) directs the United States Secretary of Transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemakings. These rulemakings will be conducted by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA).Since passage of the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, PHMSA has published several notices of proposed rulemaking which propose a number of changes to regulations governing the safety of gas transmission pipelines, gathering lines and related facilities, including, without limitation, increased safety requirements and increased penalties.Actual regulatory, inspection and enforcement oversight of pipeline safety rules with respect to the Texas pipelines’ intrastate transmission and gathering facilities is conducted by the Texas Railroad Commission’s Pipeline Safety Division (the Division), pursuant to authorization by PHMSA. The Division is obligated to enforce at least the minimum federal pipeline safety regulations, but may adopt additional or more stringent regulations as long as they are not incompatible with the federal regulations. The adoption of federal or state regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards to intrastate transmission or gathering pipelines could require the Texas pipelines to install new or modified safety controls, incur additional capital expenditures, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis. Such requirements could result in the Texas pipelines’ incurrence of increased operational costs that could be significant; or if the Texas pipelines fail to, or are unable to, comply, the Texas pipelines may be subject to administrative, civil and criminal enforcement actions, including, without limitation, assessment of monetary penalties or suspension of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Pemex may claim certain immunities under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act and Mexican law, and the Texas pipeline entities' ability to sue or recover from Pemex for breach of contract may be limited.Pemex is an independent state enterprise controlled by the Mexican Government. Accordingly, Pemex may claim sovereign immunity and it may not be possible to obtain a judgment in a U.S. court against Pemex unless the U.S. court determines that Pemex is not entitled to sovereign immunity with respect to that action. In addition, Mexican law does not allow attachment prior to judgment or attachment in aid of execution upon a judgment by Mexican courts upon the assets of Pemex or its subsidiary entities. As a result, the Texas pipeline entities’ or NEP's ability to enforce any judgments against Pemex in the courts of Mexico may be limited. Therefore, even if NEP were able to obtain a U.S. judgment against Pemex for breach of contract or in a similar action, NEP might not be able to obtain a judgment in Mexico that is based on that U.S. judgment. This inability to sue or recover from Pemex could inhibit NEP from enforcing the Texas pipeline entities’ contracts with Pemex, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Portions of NEP’s pipeline systems have been in service for several decades. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with NEP's pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make distributions.Portions of NEP’s transmission system and its gathering system have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of NEP’s systems could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce NEP’s revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of NEP’s systems could adversely affect NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and NEP's ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Natural gas operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase NEP's cost of operations and affect or limit its business plans, or expose NEP to liabilities.Natural gas transmission and gathering activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including, without limitation, those relating to air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally will require NEP to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including, without limitation, expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. In particular, compliance with Clean Air Act 20rules and compliance plans may cause NEP to incur significant capital expenditures to obtain permits, evaluate offsite impacts of its operations, install pollution control equipment, and otherwise assure compliance.Compliance with new and emerging environmental laws, regulations, and regulatory programs applicable to natural gas transmission and gathering activities may significantly increase operating costs. Failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting NEP’s operating assets. NEP may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for its operating assets or projects under development. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if NEP fails to obtain or comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change or are administered in a more stringent manner, the operations of facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. The costs that may be incurred to comply with environmental regulations in the future may have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Natural gas gathering and transmission activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the Texas pipelines’ operations. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in natural gas gathering and transmission activities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, activities of third parties, including, without limitation, the possibility of terrorist acts, and damage to pipelines, facilities and equipment caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. For pipeline assets located near populated areas, including, without limitation, residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. Therefore, should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of its common units, and under certain circumstances this could be reduced to 10%.NEP's U.S. Project Entities are public utilities as defined in the FPA. Any transfer of direct or indirect control over them requires preapproval by the FERC under FPA Section 203, either under existing blanket authorizations or by application. The FERC generally presumes that a direct or indirect holder of 10% or more of a public utility’s voting securities controls the public utility. In February 2015, the FERC issued a declaratory order determining that NEP's common units are passive, non-voting securities that will not allow any unitholders to exercise control over its public utility subsidiaries. As a result, restrictions in NEP’s partnership agreement that previously provided that an investor and its affiliates that owns 10% or more of its outstanding limited partnership interests will lose their voting rights no longer apply.However, unitholders’ voting rights continue to be restricted by a provision of NEP's partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than NEP GP, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of NEP GP, cannot vote on any matter. Further, if the FERC’s declaratory order is no longer in full force and effect or conditions in the declaratory order are not satisfied, NEP expects that the previous 10% threshold would be reinstated. A violation of FPA Section 203 by NEP as the seller, or an investor as the purchaser of NEP's voting securities, could subject the party in violation to civil or criminal penalties, including, without limitation, civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation, and other possible sanctions imposed by the FERC.NEP does not own all of the land on which the projects in its portfolio are located and its use and enjoyment of the property may be adversely affected to the extent that there are any lienholders or leaseholders that have rights that are superior to NEP's rights or the BLM suspends its federal rights-of-way grants.NEP does not own all of the land on which the projects in its portfolio are located and they generally are, and its future projects may be, located on land occupied under long-term easements, leases and rights-of-way. The ownership interests in the land subject to these easements, leases and rights-of-way may be subject to mortgages securing loans or other liens and other easement, lease rights and rights-of-way of third parties that were created prior to NEP's projects’ easements, leases and rights-of-way. As a result, some of NEP's projects’ rights under such easements, leases or rights-of-way may be subject to the rights of these third parties. While NEP performs title searches, obtains title insurance, records its interests in the real property records of the projects’ localities and enters into non-disturbance agreements to protect itself against these risks, such measures may be inadequate to protect against all risk that NEP's rights to use the land on which its projects are or will be located and its projects’ rights to such easements, leases and rights-of-way could be lost or curtailed. Additionally, NEP operations located on properties owned by others are subject to termination for violation of the terms and conditions of the various leases, easements or rights-of-way under which such operations are conducted.Further, NEP's activities conducted under federal rights-of-way grants are subject to “immediate temporary suspension” of unspecified duration, at any time, at the discretion of the BLM. A suspension of NEP activities within a federal right-of-way may be issued by BLM to protect public health or safety or the environment. An order to suspend NEP activities may be issued by BLM prior to an administrative proceeding. Such an order may be issued verbally or in writing, and may require immediate compliance 21by NEP. Any violation of such an order could result in the loss or curtailment of NEP's rights to use any federal land on which its projects are or will be located.Any such loss or curtailment of NEP's rights to use the land on which its projects are or will be located as a result of any lienholders or leaseholders that have rights that are superior to NEP's rights or the BLM’s suspension of its federal rights-of-way grants could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Additionally, NEP does not own all of the land on which the Texas pipelines are located, and NEP will be subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs when NEP needs to extend the duration of any necessary existing land use rights or if NEP needs to obtain any new land use rights in connection with any expansion projects NEP may choose to pursue. In certain instances, the rights-of-way may be subordinate to that of government agencies, which could result in costs or interruptions to NEP's service. Restrictions on NEP's ability to use the rights-of-way could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP is subject to risks associated with litigation or administrative proceedings that could materially impact its operations, including, without limitation, proceedings related to projects it acquires in the future.NEP is subject to risks and costs, including, without limitation, potential negative publicity, associated with lawsuits or claims contesting the operation or, if it acquires a project that has not reached the COD at the time of the acquisition, construction or expansion of its projects. The result and costs of defending any such lawsuit, regardless of the merits and eventual outcome, may be material. For example, individuals and interest groups may sue to challenge the issuance of a permit for a project or seek to enjoin a project’s operations. There is an ongoing FERC investigation and an ongoing FERC inquiry into certain trading activities by an employee of National Energy & Trade, LP, a former subsidiary of NET Holdings Management, LLC. Although NEP acquired NET Holdings Management, LLC in the Texas pipelines acquisition, it did not acquire National Energy & Trade, LP in the transaction and the purchase and sale agreement for the acquisition provides for NEP to be indemnified in the event the FERC orders remedies against NET Holdings Management, LLC as a result of the investigation or the inquiry, NEP cannot be certain of the outcome of that investigation and inquiry.Based on prior actions filed against affiliated entities, NEP may also become subject to claims based on alleged negative health effects related to acoustics, shadow flicker or other claims associated with wind turbines from individuals who live near NEP's projects. Any such legal proceedings or disputes could materially increase the costs associated with NEP's operations. In addition, NEP may subsequently become subject to legal proceedings or claims contesting the construction or operation of NEP's projects. Any such legal proceedings or disputes could materially delay NEP's ability to complete construction of a project in a timely manner or at all or materially increase the costs associated with commencing or continuing a project’s commercial operations. Any elective settlement of claims and unfavorable outcomes or developments relating to these proceedings or disputes, such as judgments for monetary damages, injunctions or denial or revocation of permits, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's wind projects located in Canada are subject to Canadian domestic content requirements under their FIT contracts.The FIT contracts relating to NEP's wind projects located in Canada require, and the FIT contracts relating to projects located in Ontario that NEP acquires in the future may require, suppliers to source a minimum percentage of their equipment and services from Ontario resident suppliers to meet the minimum required domestic content level (MRDCL). The MRDCL for certain of the projects is 25% and the MRDCL for the other projects is 50%. Following their respective CODs, the projects are required to submit reports to the IESO summarizing how they achieved the MRDCL for their respective projects (domestic content reports) and, if the IESO determines that such domestic content reports are complete, the IESO issues letters to such projects acknowledging the completeness of their domestic content reports. The IESO has issued letters acknowledging the completeness of these domestic content reports. Following the issuance by the IESO of letters acknowledging the completeness of domestic content reports, the IESO has the right to audit these projects for a period of up to 7 years post-COD to confirm that they complied with the domestic content requirements under their respective FIT contracts and achieved their respective MRDCLs. The failure by any project to achieve its MRDCL could result in a default by such project under its FIT contract, which default may not be possible to cure and could result in a termination of its FIT contract, without compensation, by the IESO. A termination of the FIT contract for NEP's wind projects located in Canada or any project located in Ontario that NEP acquires in the future could negatively affect revenues generated by such project and have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's cross-border operations require NEP to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and non-U.S. jurisdictions.Doing business in the U.S., Canada and Mexico requires NEP to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S., Canadian and Mexican governments. NEP's failure to comply with these laws and regulations may expose NEP to liabilities. These laws and regulations may apply to NEP, NEE and its affiliates and its individual directors, officers, employees and agents and may restrict NEP's operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, NEP's Canadian operations and business relationship with Pemex are subject to U.S. laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, and NEP's Canadian operations are also subject to Canadian anti-corruption laws. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies 22and their officers, directors, employees and agents acting on their behalf from offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise securing an improper advantage. The FCPA also requires companies to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets and to maintain a system of adequate internal accounting controls. As part of NEP's business, it deals with foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. As a result, business dealings between NEP's employees and any such foreign official could expose NEP to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws even if such business practices may be customary or are not otherwise prohibited between NEP and a private third party. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as remedial measures. In recent years, the U.S. government has brought FCPA enforcement actions that have led to significant monetary penalties against several companies operating in the oil and gas industry.NEP has established policies and procedures designed to assist it and personnel acting on its behalf in complying with applicable U.S., Canadian and Mexican laws and regulations. NEP's compliance procedures to mitigate anti-corruption compliance risks may not detect or prevent potential violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Under such circumstances, NEP could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other legal and regulatory liabilities and government-imposed requirements to undertake remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP is subject to risks associated with its ownership or acquisition of projects that remain under construction, which could result in its inability to complete construction projects on time or at all, and make projects too expensive to complete or cause the return on an investment to be less than expected.As part of its acquisition strategy, NEP has chosen and in the future may choose to acquire projects that have not yet commenced operations or are under construction. There may be delays or unexpected developments in completing any future construction projects, which could cause the construction costs of these construction projects to exceed NEP's expectations, result in substantial delays or prevent the project or pipeline from commencing commercial operations. Various factors could contribute to construction-cost overruns, construction halts or delays or failure to commence commercial operations, including, without limitation:•delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, necessary permits and licenses;•delays and increased costs related to the interconnection of new projects to the transmission system;•the inability to acquire or maintain land use and access rights;•the failure to receive contracted third-party services;•interruptions to dispatch at the projects;•supply interruptions;•work stoppages;•labor disputes;•weather interferences;•unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems, including, without limitation, discoveries of contamination, protected plant or animal species or habitat, archaeological or cultural resources or other environment-related factors;•unanticipated cost overruns in excess of budgeted contingencies; and•failure of contracting parties to perform under contracts.In addition, where NEP has an agreement with a third party to complete construction of any project, NEP is subject to the viability and performance of the third party. NEP's inability to find a replacement contracting party, where the original contracting party has failed to perform, could result in the abandonment of the construction of such project, while NEP could remain obligated under other agreements associated with the project, including, without limitation, offtake power sales agreements.Any of these risks could cause NEP's financial returns on these investments to be lower than expected or otherwise delay or prevent the completion of such projects or distribution of cash to NEP, or could cause NEP to operate below expected capacity or availability levels, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Contract RisksNEP relies on a limited number of customers and NEP is exposed to the risk that they are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to NEP or that they otherwise terminate their agreements with NEP.In most instances, NEP sells the energy generated by each of its renewable energy projects to a single renewable energy contract counterparty under a long-term PPA or into the IESO-managed system subject to a FIT contract with a single renewable energy contract counterparty. Further, NEP transports natural gas under long-term natural gas transportation agreements with a limited number of counterparties. A subsidiary of Pemex is expected to account for a significant portion of the firm contracted revenues of NEP, based on NEP's portfolio as of December 31, 2015.NEP expects that its existing and future contracts will be the principal source of cash flows available to make distributions to its unitholders. Thus, the actions of even one customer may cause variability of NEP’s revenue, financial results and cash flows that 23are difficult to predict. Similarly, significant portions of NEP’s credit risk may be concentrated among a limited number of customers and the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to NEP could significantly impact NEP's business and financial results. Any or all of NEP's customers may fail to fulfill their obligations under their contracts with NEP, whether as a result of the occurrence of any of the following factors or otherwise:•Specified events beyond NEP's control or the control of customer may temporarily or permanently excuse the customer from its obligation to accept and pay for delivery of energy generated by a project. These events could include a system emergency, transmission failure or curtailment, adverse weather conditions or labor disputes.•Since a governmental entity makes payments with respect to the energy produced by some of NEP's projects under FIT contracts, RESOP contracts and natural gas transportation agreements, including, without limitation, Pemex, NEP is subject to the risk that the governmental entity may attempt to unilaterally change or terminate its contract with NEP, whether as a result of legislative, regulatory, political or other activities.•The ability of NEP's customers to fulfill their contractual obligations to NEP depends on their financial condition. NEP is exposed to the credit risk of its customers over an extended period of time due to the long-term nature of NEP's PPAs and natural gas transportation agreements with them. These customers could become subject to insolvency or liquidation proceedings or otherwise suffer a deterioration of their financial condition when they have not yet paid for energy delivered, any of which could result in underpayment or nonpayment under such agreements.•A default or failure by NEP to satisfy minimum energy or natural gas delivery requirements or mechanical availability levels under NEP's agreements could result in damage payments to the applicable customer or termination of the applicable agreement.If NEP's customers are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to NEP, or if they otherwise terminate such contracts prior to their expiration, NEP may not be able to recover contractual payments due to NEP. Since the number of customers that purchase wholesale bulk energy or require the transportation of natural gas is limited, NEP may be unable to find a new customer on similar or otherwise acceptable terms or at all. In some cases, there currently is no economical alternative counterparty to the original customer. For example, if the IESO fails to make payments as required by its FIT contracts with NEP's Ontario projects, these projects would receive only wholesale spot prices for output sold into the IESO-managed system, which could result in a reduction of cash flows and impact NEP's ability to cover operational or financing costs for such projects. The loss of, or a reduction in sales to, any of NEP's customers would have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may not be able to extend, renew or replace expiring or terminated PPAs at favorable rates or on a long-term basis.NEP's ability to extend, renew or replace its existing PPAs depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including, without limitation:•whether the renewable energy contract counterparty has a continued need for energy at the time of the agreement’s expiration, which could be affected by, among other things, the presence or absence of governmental incentives or mandates, prevailing market prices, and the availability of other energy sources;•the satisfactory performance of NEP's delivery obligations under such PPAs;•the regulatory environment applicable to NEP's renewable energy contract counterparties at the time;•macroeconomic factors present at the time, such as population, business trends and related energy demand; and•the effects of regulation on the contracting practices of NEP's renewable energy contract counterparties.If NEP is not able to extend, renew or replace on acceptable terms existing PPAs before contract expiration, or if such agreements are otherwise terminated prior to their expiration, NEP may be required to sell the energy on an uncontracted basis at prevailing market prices, which could be materially lower than under the applicable contract. If there is no satisfactory market for a project’s uncontracted energy, NEP may decommission the project before the end of its useful life. Any failure to extend, renew or replace a significant portion of NEP's existing PPAs, or extending, renewing or replacing them at lower prices or with other unfavorable terms or the decommissioning of a project could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may be unable to secure renewals of long-term natural gas transportation agreements, which could expose its revenues to increased volatility.NEP may be unable to secure renewals of long-term transportation agreements for the Texas pipelines’ natural gas transmission business as a result of economic factors, lack of commercial natural gas supply available to the Texas pipelines’ systems, changing natural gas supply flow patterns in North America, increased competition or changes in regulation. For example, certain subsidiaries of NEP are parties to contracts for which the counterparty’s ability to pay or renew on similar terms is subject to foreign government approval.If the portion of the Texas pipelines’ capacity covered by long-term firm transportation agreements declined, NEP's revenues and contract volumes would be exposed to increased volatility. The inability to renew these agreements, including, without limitation, the Pemex contract following its expiration, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.24If the energy production by or availability of NEP's U.S. renewable energy projects is less than expected, they may not be able to satisfy minimum production or availability obligations under NEP's U.S. Project Entities’ PPAs.NEP's energy production or its renewable energy projects’ availability could be less than expected due to various factors, including, without limitation, wind or solar conditions, natural disasters, equipment underperformance, operational issues, changes in law or regulations or actions taken by third parties. NEP's U.S. Project Entities’ existing PPAs contain provisions that require NEP to produce a minimum amount of energy or be available a minimum percentage of time over periods of time specified in the PPAs. A failure to produce sufficient energy or to be sufficiently available to meet NEP's commitments under its PPAs could result in the payment of damages or the termination of PPAs and could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to the Texas pipelines become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, NEP's revenues and cash available for distribution to unitholders could be adversely affected.NEP depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from the Texas pipelines. Because NEP does not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation are not within its control. If these pipelines and other facilities were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, its ability to operate efficiently and to transport natural gas could be restricted, thereby reducing revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnection could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Risks Related to NEP's Acquisition Strategy and Future GrowthNEP's growth strategy depends on locating and acquiring interests in additional projects consistent with its business strategy at favorable prices.NEP intends to pursue opportunities to acquire contracted clean energy projects that are either operational or, in limited circumstances, under construction, from NEER and others consistent with its business strategy. Various factors could affect the availability of such projects to grow NEP's business, including, without limitation, the following factors and those described in more detail in the additional risk factors below:•competing bids for a project, including, without limitation, the NEER ROFO projects, from companies that may have substantially greater purchasing power, capital or other resources or a greater willingness to accept lower returns or more risk than NEP does;•NEP's failure to agree to favorable financial or legal terms with NEER or other sellers with respect to any proposed acquisitions;•fewer acquisition opportunities than NEP expects, which could result from, among other things, available projects having less desirable economic returns or higher risk profiles than NEP believes suitable for its acquisition strategy and future growth;•NEER’s failure to complete the development of the NEER ROFO projects or other projects that have not yet commenced commercial operations, which could result from, among other things, failure to obtain or comply with permits, failure to procure the requisite financing, transmission or interconnection or failure to satisfy the conditions to the project agreements, in a timely manner or at all;•NEP's failure to successfully develop and finance projects, to the extent that it decides to acquire projects that are not yet operational or to otherwise pursue development activities with respect to new projects;•NEP's inability to obtain regulatory approvals or other necessary consents to consummate an acquisition; and•the presence or potential presence of:•pollution, contamination or other wastes at the project site;•protected plant or animal species;•archaeological or cultural resources;•wind waking or solar shadowing effects caused by neighboring activities, which reduce potential energy production by decreasing wind speeds or reducing available insolation;•land use restrictions and other environment-related siting factors; and•local opposition to wind and solar projects and pipeline projects in certain markets due to concerns about noise, health, environmental or other alleged impacts of such projects.Any of these factors could limit NEP's acquisition opportunities and prevent it from executing, or diminish its ability to execute, its growth strategy as planned. In addition, antidumping cases were filed at the U.S. Department of Commerce that resulted in the imposition of duties on solar cells manufactured in Taiwan that are incorporated in solar panels imported into the U.S. by Chinese companies. The resulting increase in the price of solar panels has made development of solar projects less competitive and may adversely impact NEP's ability to acquire solar projects in the future.25Further, even if NEP consummates acquisitions that it believes will be accretive to cash distribution to its unitholders, those acquisitions may decrease cash distributions to its unitholders as a result of incorrect assumptions in NEP's evaluation of such acquisitions, unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond its control.Any failure to identify and acquire an interest in additional, contracted clean energy projects at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP OpCo’s partnership agreement requires that it distribute its available cash, which could limit NEP’s ability to grow and make acquisitions.NEP OpCo's partnership agreement requires that it distribute its available cash (as defined in NEP OpCo's partnership agreement), and NEP expects that NEP OpCo will distribute its available cash to its unitholders, including NEP. NEP expects that NEP and NEP OpCo will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including, without limitation, commercial borrowings by NEP OpCo’s subsidiaries and the issuance of debt and equity securities by NEP, NEP OpCo and their subsidiaries, to fund acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance NEP's growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on NEP’s ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. If NEP issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that NEP will be unable to maintain or increase its per common unit distribution level. There are no limitations in NEP's or NEP OpCo’s partnership agreements or in NEP OpCo’s subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other loan agreements, on NEP’s or NEP OpCo’s ability to issue additional units, including, without limitation, units ranking senior to NEP's or NEP OpCo’s common units.In addition, because NEP OpCo's partnership agreement requires that it distribute its available cash, and NEP's partnership agreement requires NEP to distribute its available cash, NEP's growth may not be as fast as that of businesses which reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. As a result, to the extent NEP or NEP OpCo is unable to finance growth externally or external financing significantly increases interest expense, NEP’s and NEP OpCo’s cash distribution requirements will significantly impair NEP’s ability to grow, whether by acquisitions or expansion capital projects and to increase their distributions to their unitholders.NEP's ability to consummate future acquisitions will depend on NEP's ability to finance those acquisitions.Since NEP expects to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional common units, NEP needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. NEP’s ability to access the equity capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and NEP’s common units in particular. An inability to obtain equity financing on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit NEP’s ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. In addition, the issuance of additional common units in connection with acquisitions could cause significant unitholder dilution and reduce the cash distribution per common unit if the acquisitions are not sufficiently accretive.Furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under NEP OpCo’s subsidiaries’ revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. An inability to obtain the required or desired financing could significantly limit NEP's ability to consummate acquisitions and effectuate its growth strategy. If financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase NEP's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. NEP's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.Lower prices for other fuel sources may reduce the demand for wind and solar energy.Demand for wind and solar energy is affected by the price and availability of other fuels, including, without limitation, nuclear, coal, natural gas and oil, as well as other sources of renewable energy. To the extent renewable energy, particularly wind and solar energy, becomes less cost-competitive due to reduced government renewable energy targets and other incentives that favor renewable energy, cheaper alternatives or otherwise, demand for wind and solar energy and other forms of renewable energy could decrease. Slow growth or a long-term reduction in wind and solar energy demand could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Reductions in demand for natural gas in the United States or Mexico and low market prices of natural gas could materially adversely affect the Texas pipelines’ operations and cash flows.The price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and additional factors that are beyond NEP's control. These factors include worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; the levels of domestic and Mexican natural gas production and consumer demand; fluctuations in demand from electric power generators and industrial customers; the availability of imported liquid natural gas (LNG); the ability to export LNG; the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differences; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy efficiency and conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; worldwide political events, including, without limitation, actions taken by foreign natural gas producing nations; and the anticipated 26future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. These events are beyond NEP's control and could impair its ability to execute its long-term strategy. Lower overall economic output could reduce the volume of natural gas transported or gathered, resulting in lower revenues and cash flows. Transmission revenues could be affected by long-term economic declines which could result in the non-renewal of long-term contracts. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for clean energy could change at any time and such changes may negatively impact NEP's growth strategy. NEP's strategy to grow its business through the acquisition of clean energy projects partly depends on current government policies that promote and support clean energy and enhance the economic viability of owning clean energy projects. Clean energy projects currently benefit from various U.S. federal, state and local governmental incentives, such as PTCs, ITCs, CITCs, loan guarantees, RPS, the U.S. federal Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System for depreciation and other incentives, as well as similar Canadian incentives, accelerated cost recovery deductions and other commercially oriented incentives. These policies have had a significant impact on the development of clean energy and they could change at any time. These incentives make the development of clean energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits or grants and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing such projects or creating demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs. A loss of or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of clean energy projects to developers, including, without limitation, NEE, which could reduce NEP's acquisition opportunities. Such a loss or reduction could also reduce NEP's willingness to pursue or develop certain renewable energy projects due to higher operating costs or decreased revenues under its PPAs.If these policies are not continued or renewed, the market for future renewable energy PPAs may be smaller and the prices for future clean energy PPAs may be lower. For example, the Code provides a PTC on a cents per kWh basis for all qualifying energy produced by a qualifying U.S. wind project during the first ten years after the project commences commercial operations. In December 2015, the PTC was extended for five years, subject to a phase down schedule. Alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% ITC in lieu of the PTC, also subject to a phase down schedule. Solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% ITC for new solar projects or can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the U.S. Department of Treasury for the value of the 30% ITC (convertible ITC) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. In December 2015, the 30% ITC for new solar projects was also extended, subject to a phase down schedule. The IRS previously issued guidance related to which projects will qualify for the PTC including, without limitation, criteria for the beginning of construction of a project and the continuous program of construction or the continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. The IRS has not updated its guidance to reflect the December 2015 extension. To the extent the IRS issues guidance that limits the availability of the PTC or the ITC in certain situations, the projects could generate reduced revenues and reduced economic returns, experience increased financing costs and encounter difficulty obtaining financing on acceptable terms.Additionally, some states and Canadian provinces with RPS targets have met, or in the near future will meet, their renewable energy targets. If, as a result of achieving these targets, these and other U.S. states and Canadian provinces do not increase their targets in the near future, demand for additional renewable energy could decrease. To the extent other states and provinces decrease their RPS targets, programs or goals, demand for renewable energy could decrease in the future. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's growth strategy depends on the acquisition of projects developed by NEE and third parties, which face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, the environment, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements.Project development is a capital intensive business that relies heavily on the availability of debt and equity financing sources to fund projected construction and other capital expenditures. As a result, in order to successfully develop a project, development companies, including, without limitation, other affiliates of NEE, must obtain sufficient financing to complete the development phase of their projects. Any significant disruption in the credit and capital markets or a significant increase in interest rates could make it difficult for development companies to raise funds when needed to secure capital financing, which would limit a project’s ability to complete the construction of a project that NEP may seek to acquire.Project developers, including, without limitation, other affiliates of NEE, develop, construct, manage, own and operate clean energy generation facilities and energy transmission facilities. A key component of their businesses is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. As part of these activities, project developers must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions and requirements. If project developers, including, without limitation, other affiliates of NEE, are unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms or encounter delays in obtaining or renewing such licenses or permits, or if regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or reject projects, the potential number of projects that may be available for NEP to acquire may be reduced or potential transaction opportunities may be delayed.27If the challenges of developing projects increase for project developers, including, without limitation, other affiliates of NEE, NEP's pool of available opportunities may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.Acquisitions of existing clean energy projects involve numerous risks.NEP's strategy includes growing its business through the acquisition of existing clean energy projects. The acquisition of existing clean energy projects involves numerous risks, including, without limitation, exposure to existing liabilities and unanticipated post-acquisition costs associated with the pre-acquisition activities by the project, difficulty in integrating the acquired projects into NEP's business and, if the projects are in new markets, the risks of entering markets where NEP has limited experience. Additionally, NEP risks overpaying for such projects (or not making acquisitions on an accretive basis) and failing to retain the customers of such projects. While NEP performs due diligence on prospective acquisitions, NEP may not discover all potential risks, operational issues or other issues in such projects. Further, the integration and consolidation of acquisitions require substantial human, financial and other resources and, ultimately, NEP's acquisitions may divert NEP's management’s attention from its existing business concerns, disrupt its ongoing business or not be successfully integrated. Future acquisitions might not perform as expected or the returns from such acquisitions might not support the financing utilized to acquire them or maintain them. A failure to achieve the financial returns NEP expects when NEP acquires clean energy projects could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.Renewable energy procurement is subject to U.S. state and Canadian provincial regulations, with relatively irregular, infrequent and often competitive procurement windows.Each U.S. state and Canadian province has its own renewable energy regulations and policies. Renewable energy developers must anticipate the future policy direction in each state and province and secure viable projects before they can bid to procure a PPA or other contract through often highly competitive auctions. In particular, energy policy in the key market of Ontario is subject to a political process with respect to its FIT program and renewable energy procurements that may change dramatically as a result of changes in the political climate. A failure to anticipate accurately the future policy direction in a jurisdiction or to secure viable projects could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may continue to acquire other sources of clean energy, including, without limitation, natural gas and nuclear projects, and may expand to include other types of assets including, without limitation, transmission projects, and any further acquisition of non-renewable energy projects, including, without limitation, transmission projects, may present unforeseen challenges and result in a competitive disadvantage relative to NEP's more-established competitors. A failure to successfully integrate such acquisitions with NEP's then-existing projects as a result of unforeseen operational difficulties or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may continue to acquire other sources of clean energy, including, without limitation, contracted natural gas and nuclear projects, and other types of assets, including, without limitation, transmission projects. NEP may be unable to identify attractive non-renewable energy or transmission acquisition opportunities or acquire such projects at prices and on terms that are attractive. In addition, the consummation of such acquisitions could expose NEP to increased operating costs, unforeseen liabilities and additional risks including, without limitation, regulatory and environmental issues associated with entering new sectors of the energy industry. This could require a disproportionate amount of NEP's management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse impact on NEP's business and place NEP at a competitive disadvantage relative to more established non-renewable energy market participants. A failure to successfully integrate such acquisitions as a result of unforeseen operational difficulties or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP faces substantial competition primarily from regulated utilities, developers, IPPs, pension funds and private equity funds for opportunities in North America.NEP believes its primary competitors for opportunities in North America are regulated utilities, developers, IPPs, pension funds and private equity funds. NEP competes with these companies to acquire projects with projected stable cash flows. NEP also competes for personnel with requisite industry knowledge and experience. Furthermore, the industry has experienced and may experience volatile demand for wind turbines, solar panels and related components. If demand for this equipment increases, suppliers may give priority to other market participants, including, without limitation, NEP's competitors, who may have greater resources than NEP. An inability to effectively compete with developers, IPPs, pension funds and private equity funds for opportunities in North America could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The natural gas pipeline industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect NEP's business.The Texas pipelines compete with other energy midstream enterprises, some of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources and operating experience in its areas of operation. The Texas pipelines’ competitors may expand or construct infrastructure that competes with the services it provides to customers. NEP’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts with the 28Texas pipelines’ customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Risks Related to NEP's Financial ActivitiesNEP may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions.NEP expects to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional common units, NEP needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. NEP's ability to access the equity capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and NEP's common units in particular. An inability to obtain equity financing on commercially reasonable terms could limit NEP's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy in the manner currently contemplated. In addition, the issuance of additional common units in connection with acquisitions could cause significant unitholder dilution and reduce the cash distribution per common unit if the acquisitions are not sufficiently accretive. Furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under NEP OpCo's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. If debt financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase NEP's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. An inability to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit NEP's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. NEP's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders.Restrictions in NEP OpCo's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility and term loan agreements could adversely affect NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The direct subsidiaries of NEP OpCo have entered into a revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. This credit facility and the term loan agreements contain various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit NEP OpCo’s and its direct subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional debt;•make distributions on or redeem or repurchase common units;•make certain investments and acquisitions;•incur certain liens or permit them to exist;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•merge or consolidate with another company; and•transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of projects.The credit facility and the term loan agreements also contain covenants requiring NEP OpCo and its subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios, including, without limitation, as a condition to making cash distributions to NEP and its other unitholders. NEP OpCo’s and its subsidiaries' ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond NEP's control, and NEP OpCo may be unable to meet those ratios and tests and therefore may be unable to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including, without limitation, NEP. As a result, NEP may be unable to make distributions to its unitholders. In addition, the credit facility contains customary events of default, including, without limitation, the occurrence of a change of control of NEP OpCo or its direct subsidiaries.The provisions of the credit facility and the term loan agreements may affect NEP's ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and NEP's flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. A failure to comply with the provisions of the credit facility or the term loan agreements could result in an event of default, which could enable the lenders to declare, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit facility or loan agreement, as the case may be, any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable and entitle lenders to enforce their security interest. If the payment of the debt is accelerated and NEP or NEP OpCo fails to repay the debt pursuant to their guarantees, the revenue from the projects may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, the lenders could enforce their security interest and NEP's unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.NEP's cash distributions to its unitholders may be reduced as a result of restrictions on NEP's subsidiaries’ cash distributions to NEP under the terms of their indebtedness.NEP intends to pay quarterly cash distributions on all of its outstanding common units and NEP OpCo intends to pay quarterly cash distributions on its outstanding common units (except for its Class B units). However, in any period, NEP's and NEP OpCo’s ability to pay cash distributions to their respective unitholders depends on, among other things, the performance of NEP's subsidiaries. The ability of NEP's subsidiaries to make distributions to NEP and NEP OpCo may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness.29The agreements governing NEP's subsidiaries’ project-level debt contain financial tests and covenants that NEP's subsidiaries must satisfy prior to making distributions and restrict the subsidiaries from making more than one distribution per quarter or per six-month period. If any of NEP's subsidiaries is unable to satisfy these restrictions or is otherwise in default under such agreements, it would be prohibited from making distributions that could, in turn, affect the amount of cash distributed by NEP OpCo, and ultimately limit NEP's ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders. Additionally, such agreements require NEP's projects to establish a number of reserves out of their revenues, including, without limitation, reserves to service NEP OpCo's debt and reserves for O&M expenses. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash distributed by NEP OpCo, which ultimately will affect the amount of cash distributions NEP is able to make to its unitholders. Also, upon the occurrence of certain events, including, without limitation, NEP's subsidiaries’ inability to satisfy distribution conditions for an extended period of time, NEP's subsidiaries’ revenues may be swept into one or more accounts for the benefit of the lenders under the subsidiaries’ debt agreements and the subsidiaries may be required to prepay indebtedness. Restrictions preventing NEP's subsidiaries’ cash distributions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's subsidiaries’ substantial amount of indebtedness may adversely affect NEP's ability to operate its business and its failure to comply with the terms of its subsidiaries' indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on NEP's financial condition.NEP's subsidiaries’ substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example,•failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing these obligations could result in an event of default under those agreements, which could be difficult to cure, result in bankruptcy or, with respect to subsidiary debt, result in loss of NEP OpCo's ownership interest in one or more of its subsidiaries or in some or all of their assets as a result of foreclosure;•NEP's subsidiaries’ debt service obligations require them to dedicate a substantial portion of their cash flow to pay principal and interest on their debt, thereby reducing their cash available for distribution to NEP;•NEP's subsidiaries’ substantial indebtedness could limit NEP's ability to fund operations of any projects acquired in the future and NEP's financial flexibility, which could reduce its ability to plan for and react to unexpected opportunities;•NEP's subsidiaries’ substantial debt service obligations make NEP vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, credit markets, capital markets, industry, competitive conditions and government regulation that could place NEP at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and•NEP's subsidiaries’ substantial indebtedness could limit NEP's ability to obtain financing for working capital, including, without limitation, collateral postings, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general partnership or other purposes.If NEP's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEP OpCo, do not comply with their obligations under their debt instruments, they may be required to refinance all or a part of their indebtedness, which they may not be able to do on similar terms or at all. Increases in interest rates and changes in debt covenants may reduce the amounts that NEP and its subsidiaries can borrow, reduce NEP's cash flows and increase the equity investment NEP may be required to make in any projects NEP may acquire. In addition, the project-level financing for projects that NEP may acquire that are under construction may prohibit distributions until such project commences operations. If NEP's subsidiaries are not able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to repay their outstanding indebtedness or otherwise are unable to comply with the terms of their indebtedness, NEP could be required to reduce overhead costs, reduce the scope of its projects, sell some or all of its projects or delay construction of projects NEP may acquire, all of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect NEP's operations.NEP is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent the cash flows generated by NEP's projects are in multiple currencies. NEP expects net revenue from Canadian dollar markets to continue to represent a meaningful portion of its net revenue. Any measures that NEP may implement to reduce the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations and other risks of its multinational operations may not be effective or may be overly expensive. In addition, foreign currency translation risk arises upon the translation of the financial statements of NEP's subsidiaries whose functional currency is the Canadian dollar into U.S. dollars for the purpose of preparing NEP's financial statements. The assets and liabilities of its Canadian dollar denominated subsidiaries are translated at the closing rate at the date of reporting and income statement items are translated at the average rate for the period. These currency translation differences may have significant negative impacts. Foreign currency transaction risk also arises when NEP or its subsidiaries enter into transactions where the settlement occurs in a currency other than the functional currency of NEP or its subsidiaries. Exchange differences arising from the settlement or translation of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were translated on initial recognition during the period or in previous financial statements are recognized as profit or loss in the period in which they arise, which could materially impact NEP's net income.To the extent that NEP engages in hedging activities to reduce its currency exchange rate exposure, NEP may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of exchange rate increases above the level of the hedges. However, because NEP is not fully hedged, NEP will continue to have exposure on the unhedged portion of the currency NEP exchanges.Additionally, NEP's hedging activities may not be as effective as it anticipates in reducing the volatility of its future cash flows. NEP's hedging activities can result in substantial losses to the extent hedging arrangements are ineffective or its hedging policies and 30procedures are not followed properly or do not work as intended. Further, hedging contracts are subject to the credit risk that the other party may prove unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the contracts, particularly during periods of weak and volatile economic conditions. Certain of the financial instruments NEP uses to hedge its exchange rate exposure must be accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. This causes periodic earnings volatility due to fluctuations in exchange rates. Exposure to adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on NEP's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and its ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP is exposed to risks inherent in its use of interest rate swaps.Some of NEP's subsidiaries’ indebtedness accrues interest at variable rates, and some of its subsidiaries have used interest rate swaps to try to protect against market volatility. The use of interest rate swaps, however, does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the value of a position or prevent losses if the value of a position declines. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a position increases. In addition, to the extent that actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources are not available, the valuation of these contracts involves judgment or the use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. If the values of these financial contracts change in a manner that NEP does not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Risks Related to NEP's Relationship with NEENEE exercises substantial influence over NEP and NEP is highly dependent on NEE and its affiliates.NEE indirectly owns NEP GP and has the ability to appoint all of NEP GP’s executive officers and directors. In addition, NEE, through NEE Equity, holds common units of NEP OpCo. As a result, NEE continues to have a substantial influence on NEP's affairs and business operations, and has majority voting power on certain matters requiring the approval of NEP's unitholders that do not exclude votes of NEE and its affiliates. Furthermore, NEE has purchased and may from time to time in the future purchase NEP common units in the open market under its previously announced repurchase program. This concentration of ownership and voting power may delay or prevent a change in control of NEP, which could prevent unitholders from receiving a premium for their common units. In addition, certain of NEP's project subsidiaries are party to agreements or subject to various regulatory or tax regimes that require NEE or its affiliates to maintain certain levels of direct or indirect ownership, economic interests or voting power, which could limit NEE’s ability to decrease its ownership, economic interest or voting power in the future.NEP depends on NEE's affiliates to provide, or arrange for the provision of, administrative and O&M services under agreements with NEE Management and NEER, respectively, and to continue to provide credit support on behalf of NEP’s subsidiaries under an agreement with NEER. Any failure by NEE Management or NEER to perform their administrative and O&M services obligations or the failure by NEER to continue to provide credit support or the failure by NEP to identify and contract with replacement management service providers or provide replacement credit support on similar terms, if required, could materially impact the successful operation of its projects. Under these agreements, certain NEE employees provide services to NEP. These services are not the primary responsibility of these employees, nor are these employees required to act for NEP alone. The agreements do not require any specific individuals to be provided by NEE and NEE has the discretion to determine which of its employees perform services required to be provided to NEP.NEP's future success depends on the continued service of employees of NEE or its affiliates, who are not obligated to remain employed with NEE. NEP's future also depends on NEE’s successful renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with its bargaining employees on acceptable terms when those agreements expire or otherwise terminate. NEE has experienced departures of key professionals and personnel and key professionals and personnel may depart in the future, and any such departures may adversely affect NEP's ability to achieve its objectives. The departure of a significant number of NEE’s professionals or a significant portion of the NEE employees who work at any of NEP's projects for any reason, or the failure to appoint qualified or effective successors in the event of such departures, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEER may lose key employees assigned to manage the Texas pipelines.NEER employs several individuals who had been employed at the time of the Texas pipelines acquisition by the former owners of the Texas pipelines (the legacy employees) to assist in the management of the Texas pipelines. The Texas pipeline business depends on their experience and industry knowledge. The success of the Texas pipeline business, therefore, depends in part upon NEER’s ability to retain these legacy employees. The legacy employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the Texas pipelines acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on NEER’s ability to retain them. The loss of the legacy employees could adversely affect NEP's future business, operations and financial results.31NEP is highly dependent on credit support from NEE and its affiliates. NEP's subsidiaries may default under contracts or become subject to cash sweeps if credit support is terminated, if NEE or its affiliates fail to honor their obligations under credit support arrangements, or if NEE or another credit support provider ceases to satisfy creditworthiness requirements, and NEP will be required in certain circumstances to reimburse NEE for draws that are made on credit support.NEP depends on guarantees and letters of credit that have been provided by NEECH, NEER and other NEE affiliates to counterparties on behalf of NEP's subsidiaries to satisfy NEP's subsidiaries’ contractual obligations to provide credit support, including, without limitation, under PPAs. These NEE affiliates also have provided credit support to lenders to fund reserve accounts, to facilitate NEE’s cash management practices and to cover the risk that CITC proceeds received by any U.S. project entity are later recaptured by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. NEP expects NEECH, NEER and other NEE affiliates, upon NEP's request and at NEER’s option, to provide credit support on behalf of any projects NEP may acquire in the future on similar terms but they are under no obligation to do so. Any failure of NEP's subsidiaries to maintain acceptable credit support or credit support providers to honor their obligations under their respective credit support arrangements could cause, among other things, events of default to arise under NEP's subsidiaries’ PPAs and financing agreements. Such events of default could entitle customers to terminate their contracts with NEP's subsidiaries or could entitle lenders to accelerate indebtedness owed to them, which could result in the insolvency of NEP's subsidiaries. In addition, if beneficiaries draw on credit support provided by NEECH, NEER and these other NEE affiliates, then NEP OpCo may be required to reimburse them for the amounts drawn, which could reduce NEP OpCo’s cash distributions. These events could decrease NEP's revenues, restrict distributions from its subsidiaries, or result in a sale of or foreclosure on its assets. Further, NEE affiliates may not provide credit support in respect of new projects on the same terms on which they currently provide credit support for NEP’s existing projects, which may require NEP to obtain the required credit support from third parties on less favorable terms and may prevent NEP from consummating the acquisition of additional projects. All of the foregoing events, including, without limitation, a failure of NEP OpCo to have sufficient funds to satisfy its reimbursement obligations, could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEER or one of its affiliates is permitted to borrow funds received by NEP's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEP OpCo, as partial consideration for its obligation to provide credit support to NEP, and NEER will use these funds for its own account without paying additional consideration to NEP and is obligated to return these funds only as needed to cover project costs and distributions or as demanded by NEP OpCo. NEP's financial condition and ability to make distributions to its unitholders, as well as its ability to grow distributions in the future, is highly dependent on NEER’s performance of its obligations to return all or a portion of these funds.Under the CSCS agreement, NEER or one of its affiliates is permitted to withdraw funds received by NEP's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEP OpCo, and hold them in an account of NEER or one of its affiliates to the extent the funds are not required to pay NEP or its subsidiaries’ costs or otherwise not required to be retained by its subsidiaries, until the financing agreements of its subsidiaries permit distributions to be made to NEP OpCo or, in the case of NEP OpCo, until a minimum quarterly distribution is scheduled to be paid. To the extent that NEER and its affiliates decide to retain such excess funds in their own operations instead of returning them to NEP, it would reduce the amount of cash available to NEP to be used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and distributions to unitholders. For example, NEER’s obligation to return funds prior to a scheduled distribution date is limited to the amount required to fund NEP OpCo’s anticipated quarterly distribution, unless the return of such funds is demanded by NEP OpCo. NEP's ability to grow its distributions in the future is dependent on the growth of NEP OpCo’s distributions to NEP, which could be limited if NEER decides to retain excess funds for its own operations instead of returning them to NEP OpCo. In addition, because NEP is managed by NEER, NEP may also choose not to request such funds even if they could be used for acquisitions or growth projects. Further, NEER will not pay NEP any interest or additional consideration for the use of these funds. If NEER or one of its affiliates realizes any earnings on NEP OpCo’s or its subsidiaries’ funds prior to the return of such funds, it is permitted to retain those earnings for its own account. The failure of NEER to return funds to NEP's subsidiaries for any reason could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may not be able to consummate future acquisitions from NEER or from third parties.NEP's ability to grow through acquisitions and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent in part on its ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash distributions per common unit. NEP's growth strategy is based in part on its right of first offer with respect to any NEER ROFO projects that NEER may elect to sell. Such acquisitions may not be available to NEP on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, there are limited restrictions on NEER’s ability to sell the NEER ROFO projects to a third party. Other than the right of first offer with respect to any NEER ROFO projects that NEER elects to sell during the period ending in July 2020, NEER has no obligation to make any projects available to NEP for potential purchase. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions, whether from NEER or any third parties, will depend upon, among other things, whether:•NEP is able to identify attractive acquisition candidates;•NEP is able to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements;•NEP is able to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; and•NEP is outbid by competitors.Additionally, several factors could materially and adversely impact the extent to which suitable acquisition opportunities are made available from NEER, including, without limitation, an assessment by NEER relating to its liquidity position, the risk profile of an 32opportunity, its fit with NEP's operations, limits on NEE personnel’s ability to devote their time to NEP and other factors. The overall question of an acquisition’s suitability is highly subjective and specific to NEP. For example, NEER may determine that a future acquisition opportunity other than the NEER ROFO projects is not suitable for NEP, or NEER may determine that an opportunity is suitable for itself or another NEE affiliate without regard to whether it is suitable for NEP. Furthermore, if NEER reduces its ownership interest in NEP, it may be less willing to sell the NEER ROFO projects or other NEER projects to NEP. An inability by NEER to identify, or a failure by NEER to make available, suitable acquisition opportunities could hinder NEP's growth and materially adversely impact its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP may not be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions, whether from NEER or any third parties. Any acquisitions that may be available to NEP may require that it be able to access the debt and equity markets. However, NEP may be unable to access such markets on attractive terms or at all. If NEP is unable to make future acquisitions, its future growth and ability to increase distributions to its unitholders will be limited. Furthermore, even if NEP does consummate acquisitions that NEP believes will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in cash distributions per common unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in NEP's evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond its control. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, without limitation, difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, inefficiencies and unexpected costs and liabilities. These events could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP GP and its affiliates, including, without limitation, NEE, have conflicts of interest with NEP and limited duties to NEP and its unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of NEP and holders of NEP common units.NEE indirectly owns and controls NEP GP and has the ability to appoint all of NEP GP's officers and directors. All of NEP GP's executive officers and a majority of NEP GP's current directors also are officers of NEE. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise as a result of the relationships between NEP GP and its affiliates, including, without limitation, NEE, on the one hand, and NEP and NEP's limited partners, on the other hand. Although NEP GP has a duty to manage NEP in a manner beneficial to NEP and its limited partners, NEP GP's directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage NEP GP in a manner beneficial to its owner, NEE. In addition, NEE Management or certain of its affiliates provide or arrange for certain services to be provided to NEP, including, without limitation, with respect to carrying out NEP's day-to-day management and providing individuals to act as NEP GP's executive officers. These same executive officers may help NEP GP's board of directors evaluate potential acquisition opportunities presented by NEER under the ROFO agreement.In resolving such conflicts of interest, NEP GP may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including, without limitation, NEE, over the interests of its unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:•No agreement to which NEP is a party requires NEE or its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors NEP or uses NEP's projects or dictates what markets to pursue or grow. NEE’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of NEE, which may be contrary to NEP's interests.•Contracts between NEP, on the one hand, and NEP GP and its affiliates, on the other, are not and will not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations.•NEP GP's affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with NEP and neither NEP GP nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to NEP except for the NEER ROFO projects.•NEP GP is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than NEP, such as NEE, in resolving conflicts of interest.•NEP does not have any officers or employees and relies solely on officers and employees of NEP GP and its affiliates, including, without limitation, NEE. The officers of NEP GP also devote significant time to the business of NEE and its affiliates and are compensated by NEE accordingly.•NEP GP may cause NEP to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a payment of the IDR fee or to accelerate the expiration of the purchase price adjustment period.•NEP's partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by NEP GP with contractual standards governing its duties, and limits NEP GP's liabilities and the remedies available to NEP's unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under applicable Delaware law.•Except in limited circumstances, NEP GP has the power and authority to conduct NEP's business without unitholder approval.•Actions taken by NEP GP may affect the amount of cash available to pay distributions to unitholders.•NEP GP determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by NEP.•NEP reimburses NEP GP and its affiliates for expenses.•NEP GP has limited liability regarding NEP's contractual and other obligations.•NEP GP controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to NEP, including, without limitation, NEER’s obligations under the ROFO agreement and its other commercial agreements with NEER.•NEP may choose not to retain counsel, independent accountants or other advisors separate from those retained by NEP GP to perform services for NEP or for the holders of common units.33A decision by NEP GP to favor its own interests and the interests of NEE over NEP's interests and the interests of its unitholders could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Common units are subject to NEP GP’s limited call right.If at any time NEP GP and its affiliates control more than 80% of the voting power of NEP’s outstanding common units, NEP GP will have the right, but not the obligation, to acquire all of NEP’s outstanding common units, other than those owned by NEP GP and its affiliates, at a price not less than the then-current market price of such common units calculated in accordance with NEP’s partnership agreement. For purposes of the limited call right, the common units and special voting units will be considered a single class. At December 31, 2015, NEP GP and its affiliates controlled approximately 76.9% of the voting power of NEP’s outstanding common units.NEP GP may exercise its right to call and purchase common units as provided in the partnership agreement or assign that right to one of its affiliates or to NEP free of any liability or obligation to NEP or its unitholders. As a result, a common unitholder may have its common units purchased at a price that may be lower than market prices at various times prior to such purchase or lower than a common unitholder may anticipate the market price to be in the future.NEE and other affiliates of NEP GP are not restricted in their ability to compete with NEP.NEP's partnership agreement provides that its general partner is restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as NEP GP and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in NEP. Affiliates of NEP GP, including, without limitation, NEE and its other subsidiaries, are not prohibited, including, without limitation, under the MSA, from owning projects or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with NEP. NEE currently holds interests in, and may make investments in and purchases of, entities that acquire, own and operate clean energy projects. NEER is under no obligation to make any acquisition opportunities available to NEP, other than under the ROFO agreement.Under the terms of NEP's partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to NEP GP or any of its affiliates, including, without limitation, its executive officers and directors and NEE. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for NEP will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to NEP. Any such person or entity will not be liable to NEP or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to NEP. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between NEP and affiliates of NEP GP and result in less than favorable treatment of NEP and holders of its common units.NEP may be unable to terminate the MSA.The MSA provides that NEP and certain affiliates may only terminate the agreement upon 90 days' prior written notice to NEE Management upon the occurrence of any of the following:•NEE Management defaults in the performance or observance of any material term, condition or covenant contained therein in a manner that results in material harm to NEP or certain affiliates and the default continues unremedied for a period of 90 days after written notice thereof is given to NEE Management;•NEE Management engages in any act of fraud, misappropriation of funds or embezzlement that results in material harm to NEP;•NEE Management is reckless in the performance of its duties under the agreement and such recklessness results in material harm to NEP or its affiliates; or•upon the happening of certain events relating to the bankruptcy or insolvency of NEP or certain of its affiliates.NEP is not able to terminate the agreement for any other reason, including, without limitation, if NEE Management experiences a change of control. The agreement continues for twenty years and thereafter renews for successive five-year periods unless NEP OpCo or NEE Management provides written notice to the other that it does not wish for the agreement to be renewed. If NEE Management’s performance does not meet the expectations of investors and NEP is unable to terminate the MSA, the market price of NEP's common units could suffer. In addition, even if the MSA is terminated, it may not terminate in respect of provisions relating to the payment of the IDR Fee payable to NEE Management under that agreement, which could result in NEE or its affiliates receiving payments that could otherwise be distributed to NEP's unitholders even though NEE Management would be no longer obligated to provide services to NEP under the MSA.If NEE Management terminates the MSA, NEER terminates the management sub-contract or either of them defaults in the performance of its obligations thereunder, NEP may be unable to contract with a substitute service provider on similar terms, or at all.NEP relies on NEE Management and NEER to provide NEP with management services under the MSA and the management sub-contract, respectively and does not have independent executive or senior management personnel. Each of the MSA and the 34management sub-contract, respectively, provides that NEE Management and NEER, respectively, may terminate the applicable agreement upon 180 days prior written notice of termination to NEP if NEP defaults in the performance or observance of any material term, condition or covenant contained in the agreement in a manner that results in material harm to NEE Management or any of its affiliates other than NEP or its subsidiaries and NEER, respectively, and the default continues unremedied for a period of 90 days after written notice of the breach is given to NEP upon the happening of certain specified events. If NEE Management terminates the MSA, if NEER terminates the management sub-contract or if either of them defaults in the performance of its obligations thereunder, NEP may be unable to contract with a substitute service provider on similar terms or at all, and the costs of substituting service providers may be substantial. In addition, NEE Management and NEER are familiar with NEP's projects and, as a result, NEE Management and NEER have certain synergies with NEP. Substitute service providers would lack such synergies and may not be able to provide the same level of service to NEP. If NEP cannot locate a service provider that is able to provide NEP with substantially similar services as NEE Management and NEER provide under the MSA and management sub-contract, respectively, on similar terms, it would likely have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.NEP's arrangements with NEE limit NEE’s liability, and NEP has agreed to indemnify NEE against claims that it may face in connection with such arrangements, which may lead NEE to assume greater risks when making decisions relating to NEP than it otherwise would if acting solely for its own account.Under the MSA, NEE Management and its affiliates do not assume any responsibility other than to provide or arrange for the provision of the services described in the MSA in good faith. Additionally, under the MSA, the liability of NEE Management and its affiliates is limited to the fullest extent permitted by law to conduct involving bad faith, fraud, willful misconduct or recklessness or, in the case of a criminal matter, to action that was known to have been unlawful. NEP has agreed, and will cause certain affiliates to, indemnify NEE Management and its affiliates and any of their directors, officers, agents, members, partners, stockholders and employees and other representatives of NEE Management and its affiliates to the fullest extent permitted by law from and against any claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses incurred by an indemnified person or threatened in connection with NEP's, NEE Operating GP's, NEP OpCo and certain affiliates' operations, investments and activities or in respect of or arising from the MSA or the services provided thereunder by NEE Management and its affiliates, except to the extent that the claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses are determined to have resulted from the conduct in respect of which such persons have liability as described above. Additionally, the maximum amount of the aggregate liability of NEE Management or any of its affiliates in providing services under the MSA or otherwise (including, without limitation, NEER under the management sub-contract), or of any director, officer, employee, contractor, agent, advisor or other representative of NEE Management or any of its affiliates, will be equal to the base management fee previously paid by NEP in the most recent calendar year under the MSA but in no event less than $4 million. These protections may result in NEE Management and its affiliates tolerating greater risks when making decisions than otherwise would be the case, including, without limitation, when determining whether to use leverage in connection with acquisitions. The indemnification arrangements to which NEE Management and its affiliates are a party may also give rise to legal claims for indemnification, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The credit and business risk profiles of NEP GP and its owner, NEE, could adversely affect any NEP credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase NEP's borrowing costs or hinder NEP's ability to raise capital.The credit and business risk profiles of NEP GP and NEE may be considered in credit evaluations of NEP because NEP GP, which is indirectly owned by NEE, controls NEP's business activities, including, without limitation, NEP's and NEP OpCo's cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Any adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of NEE, including, without limitation, the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flows from NEP to service its indebtedness, or a downgrade of NEE’s investment-grade credit rating, could increase NEP's borrowing costs or hinder NEP's ability to raise capital, and could adversely affect NEP’s credit risk profile, as well as any credit ratings NEP may seek.If NEP were to seek a credit rating, NEP's credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of NEE, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and Fitch Ratings, Inc. may consider the leverage and credit profile of NEE because of its ownership interest in and control of NEP. Any adverse effect on any NEP's credit rating would increase NEP's cost of borrowing or hinder NEP's ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on NEP's business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Risks Related to Ownership of NEP's Common UnitsNEP's ability to make distributions to its unitholders depends on the ability of NEP OpCo to make cash distributions to its limited partners.NEP's cash flow is generated from distributions NEP receives from NEP OpCo, which will consist solely of cash distributions that NEP OpCo has received from its subsidiaries. Additionally, during the purchase price adjustment period which, subject to certain early termination provisions, will extend until the first business day following the distribution of available cash by NEP OpCo in respect of any quarter beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2017, for which certain tests are met, NEP may receive additional cash flows from any payments NEP receives from NEE Equity under the purchase agreement by and between NEE Equity and NEP (the purchase agreement), which will be funded solely by the distributions NEE Equity receives from NEP OpCo. The amount 35of cash that NEP OpCo’s subsidiaries will be able to distribute to NEP OpCo each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash such subsidiaries generate from their operations. NEP OpCo may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current level or at all. If NEP OpCo reduces its per unit distribution, either because of reduced operating cash flow, higher expenses, capital requirements or otherwise, NEP will have less cash distributions to its unitholders and would likely be required to reduce its per common unit distribution.The amount of cash that NEP OpCo can distribute to its unitholders, including NEP, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:•the amount of power generated from its projects and the prices received therefor;•its operating costs;•payment of interest and principal amortization, which depends on the amount of its indebtedness and the interest payable thereon;•the ability of NEP OpCo’s subsidiaries to distribute cash under their respective financing agreements;•the completion of any ongoing construction activities on time and on budget;•its capital expenditures; and•if NEP OpCo acquires a project prior to its COD, timely completion of future construction projects.In addition, the amount of cash that NEP OpCo will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including, without limitation:•availability of borrowings under its subsidiaries' credit facility to pay distributions;•the costs of acquisitions, if any;•fluctuations in its working capital needs;•timing and collectability of receivables;•restrictions on distributions contained in its credit facility and other financing documents;•prevailing economic conditions;•access to credit or capital markets; and•the amount of cash reserves established by NEE Operating GP, NEP OpCo’s general partner, for the proper conduct of its business.Because of these factors, NEP OpCo may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay its minimum quarterly distribution per common unit or any other amount. Furthermore, the amount of cash that NEP OpCo has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including, without limitation, cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, NEP OpCo may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income.If NEP incurs material tax liabilities, NEP's distributions to its unitholders may be reduced, without any corresponding reduction in the amount of the IDR fee.The IDR fee is an expense of NEP OpCo that reduces the amount of cash distributions by NEP OpCo to NEP OpCo's unitholders, including NEP. The IDR fee is not reduced for NEP's income tax liabilities. Instead, NEP must use the cash proceeds of any distributions NEP receives from NEP OpCo and any purchase price adjustment payment NEP receives from NEE Equity to satisfy NEP's income tax liabilities. Any such payments of income taxes by NEP will reduce the amount of cash distributions by NEP to its unitholders. As a result, if NEP incurs material income tax liabilities, NEP's distributions to its unitholders may be reduced, without any corresponding reduction in the amount of the IDR fee.Holders of NEP's common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect NEP's general partner or NEP GP’s directors.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting NEP's business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding NEP's business. Unitholders have no right to elect NEP's general partner or NEP GP’s board of directors. Rather, the board of directors of NEP GP will be appointed by NEE. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of NEP's general partner, they have limited ability to remove NEP's general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. NEP's partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about NEP's operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management.36NEP's partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of NEP's common units for actions taken by NEP GP that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties.NEP's partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by NEP GP that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties under state fiduciary duty law. For example, NEP's partnership agreement provides that:•whenever NEP GP, the board of directors of NEP GP or any committee thereof (including, without limitation, the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, NEP GP, the board of directors of NEP GP and any committee thereof (including, without limitation, the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of NEP, and, except as specifically provided by NEP's partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by NEP's partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;•NEP GP will not have any liability to NEP or its unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;•NEP GP and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to NEP or NEP's limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that NEP GP or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and•NEP GP will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including, without limitation, any duties to NEP or its unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:•approved by the conflicts committee of NEP GP's board of directors, although NEP GP is not obligated to seek such approval;•approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by NEP GP and its affiliates;•determined by the board of directors of NEP GP to be on terms no less favorable to NEP than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or•determined by the board of directors of NEP GP to be fair and reasonable to NEP, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including, without limitation, other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to NEP.In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by NEP GP or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by NEP's unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of NEP GP determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth subbullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors of NEP GP acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or NEP challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.NEP's partnership agreement replaces NEP GP's fiduciary duties to holders of its common units with contractual standards governing its duties.NEP's partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which NEP GP would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those standards with several different contractual standards. For example, NEP's partnership agreement permits NEP GP and its affiliates to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as NEP's general partner, free of any duties to NEP or its unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language of the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. These provisions entitle NEP GP and its affiliates to consider only the interests and factors that they desire and relieve them of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, NEP, its affiliates or NEP's limited partners. Examples of decisions that NEP GP and its affiliates may make in their individual capacities include:•how to allocate corporate opportunities among NEP and its affiliates;•whether to exercise NEP GP’s limited call right, preemptive rights or registration rights;•whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of NEP GP;•how to exercise NEP GP’s voting rights with respect to the units it or its affiliates own in NEP OpCo and NEP;•whether to exchange NEE Equity’s NEP OpCo common units for NEP's common units or, with the approval of the conflicts committee, to have NEP OpCo redeem NEE Equity’s NEP OpCo common units for cash; and•whether to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of NEP or NEP OpCo or to an amendment to NEP's partnership agreement or the NEP OpCo partnership agreement.These decisions may be made by the owner of NEP GP.37Even if holders of NEP's common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove NEP GP without NEE’s consent.Unitholders are unable to remove NEP's general partner or NEP OpCo’s general partner without NEE’s consent because NEE Equity, through its ownership of special voting units, holds sufficient voting power to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2⁄3% of all outstanding common units and the special voting units voting together as a single class is required to remove NEP's general partner. Currently, the special voting units held by NEE Equity represent the combined voting power of NEP's common units and special voting units. Also, if NEP's general partner is removed without cause during the purchase price adjustment period and common units (including, without limitation, the special voting units) held by NEE and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, the purchase price adjustment period will be terminated. A removal of NEP's general partner under these circumstances may adversely affect NEP's common units by prematurely eliminating the purchase price adjustment obligation of NEE Equity, which would otherwise have continued until NEP OpCo had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding NEP's general partner liable to NEP or any of its limited partners for acting in bad faith or engaging in fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as NEP's general partner. Generally, cause does not include charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of NEP's general partner because of unitholder dissatisfaction with the performance of NEP's general partner in managing NEP will most likely result in the termination of the purchase price adjustment period.NEE’s interest in NEP GP's and the control of NEP GP may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.NEP's partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of NEE to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in NEP GP to a third party. NEP’s partnership agreement also does not restrict the ability of NEP GP to issue equity securities in a public or private transaction. A new owner of all or a portion of an ownership interest in NEP GP could then be in a position to replace NEP GP's board of directors and officers with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers of NEP GP. The IDR fee may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.Under the MSA, NEE, through NEE Management, may transfer the IDR fee to an unaffiliated third party, or may sell a portion of the affiliate that has the right to receive the IDR fee to an unaffiliated third party, at any time. If NEE transfers the right to receive the IDR fee to a third party but retains its interest in NEP GP, NEE may not have the same incentive to take the steps necessary to grow NEP's business and oversee NEP's operations so as to increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the IDR fee. For example, a transfer of the IDR fee by NEE could reduce the likelihood of NEE selling or contributing additional projects to NEP, which in turn would impact NEP's ability to grow NEP's project base.NEP may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.NEP's partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partnership interests, including, without limitation, limited partnership interests that rank senior to the common units, which NEP may issue at any time without the approval of its unitholders. The issuance by NEP of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•NEP's existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in NEP will decrease;•the amount of cash distributions per common unit may decrease;•because the IDR fee is based on a percentage of total available cash, the IDR fee will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of the common units may decline.Reimbursements and fees owed to NEP GP and its affiliates for services provided to NEP or on NEP's behalf will reduce cash distributions to or from NEP OpCo and from NEP to NEP's unitholders, and the amount and timing of such reimbursements and fees will be determined by NEP GP and there are no limits on the amount that NEP OpCo may be required to pay.Under the NEP OpCo partnership agreement, prior to making any distributions on its common units, NEP OpCo will reimburse NEP GP and its affiliates, including, without limitation, NEE, for out-of-pocket expenses they incur and payments they make on NEP's behalf and for certain payments made under credit support arrangements provided by NEER on behalf of NEP's subsidiaries. NEP OpCo will also pay certain fees and reimbursements under the MSA and the CSCS agreement prior to making any distributions on its common units. The reimbursement of expenses and certain payments made under credit support arrangements and payment of fees, if any, to NEP GP and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash NEP OpCo has to pay cash distributions to NEP and the amount that NEP has available to pay distributions to NEP's unitholders. Under the NEP OpCo partnership agreement, there is no limit on the fees and expense reimbursements NEP OpCo may be required to pay.38Discretion in establishing cash reserves by NEE Operating GP may reduce the amount of cash distributions to unitholders.NEP OpCo’s partnership agreement requires its general partner, NEE Operating GP, to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund NEP OpCo’s future operating expenditures. In addition, NEP OpCo's partnership agreement permits its general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of NEP OpCo’s business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which NEP OpCo is a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash distributed by NEP OpCo, which ultimately will affect the amount of cash distributions to NEP's unitholders.While NEP's partnership agreement requires NEP to distribute its available cash, NEP's partnership agreement, including, without limitation, provisions requiring NEP to make cash distributions, may be amended.While NEP's partnership agreement requires NEP to distribute its available cash (as defined therein), the partnership agreement, including, without limitation, provisions requiring NEP to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. NEP's partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the purchase price adjustment period without the approval of a majority of the common units held by its public unitholders. However, NEP's partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of NEP GP and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including, without limitation, the Special Voting Units) after the purchase price adjustment period has ended.NEP OpCo can borrow money to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of credit available to operate NEP's business.NEP OpCo’s partnership agreement allows it to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions to its unitholders. Accordingly, if NEP OpCo has available borrowing capacity, it can make distributions on its common units even though cash generated by its operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by NEP OpCo to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings it can make for NEP OpCo’s operations.Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of NEP's common units, NEP's ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and NEP's ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing NEP's financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, NEP's unit price is impacted by the level of NEP's cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in NEP's units, and a rising interest rate environment could adversely impact the price of NEP's common units, NEP's ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and NEP's ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders.The price of NEP's common units may fluctuate significantly and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment and a market that will provide unitholders with adequate liquidity may not develop.The common units are traded on the NYSE, but NEP does not know how liquid that market might be. The lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. The market price of NEP's common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond NEP's control, including, without limitation:•NEP's quarterly distributions;•NEP's quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in NEP's industry;•announcements by NEP or NEP's competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover NEP's common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of NEP's common units; •insufficient investor interest in NEP's common units;•concentration of ownership of NEP's common units in a relatively small group of investors;•operating and unit price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to NEP;•any adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of NEE; and•the other factors described in these Risk Factors.The liability of holders of NEP's common units, which represent limited partnership interests in NEP, may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of NEP's business.A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. NEP is organized under Delaware law and NEP conducts business in a number of other states and in Canada. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited 39partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which NEP does business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of NEP's obligations as if the unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:•NEP were conducting business in a state or province but had not complied with that particular state or province’s partnership statute; or•the unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace NEP GP, to approve some amendments to NEP's partnership agreement or to take other actions under NEP's partnership agreement constitute “control” of NEP's business.Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware law, NEP may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause NEP's liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distributed amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.Except in limited circumstances, NEP GP has the power and authority to conduct NEP's business without unitholder approval.Under NEP's partnership agreement, NEP GP has full power and authority to do all things, other than those matters that require unitholder approval or with respect to which NEP GP has sought conflicts committee approval, on such terms as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to conduct NEP's business. In addition, since NEP owns all of the equity interests of NEE Operating GP, determinations made by NEE Operating GP under NEP OpCo’s partnership agreement will ultimately be made at the direction of NEP GP. Decisions that may be made by NEP GP in accordance with NEP's or NEP OpCo’s partnership agreements include:•making any expenditures, lending or borrowing money, assuming, guaranteeing or contracting for indebtedness and other liabilities, issuing evidences of indebtedness, including, without limitation, indebtedness that is convertible into NEP's securities, and incurring any other obligations;•purchasing, selling, acquiring or disposing of NEP's securities, or issuing additional options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to NEP's securities;•acquiring, disposing, mortgaging, pledging, encumbering, hypothecating or exchanging any or all of NEP's assets;•negotiating, executing and performing any contracts, conveyances or other instruments;•making cash distributions;•selecting and dismissing employees and agents, outside attorneys, accountants, consultants and contractors and determining their compensation and other terms of employment or hiring;•maintaining insurance for NEP's or NEP OpCo's benefit and the benefit of NEP's respective partners;•forming, acquiring an interest in, contributing property to and making loans to any limited or general partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company or other entity;•controlling any matters affecting NEP's rights and obligations, including, without limitation, the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity, otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation, arbitration or mediation, incurring legal expenses and settling claims and litigation;•indemnifying any person against liabilities and contingencies to the extent permitted by law;•making tax, regulatory and other filings or rendering periodic or other reports to governmental or other agencies having jurisdiction over NEP's business or assets; and•entering into agreements with any of its affiliates to render services to NEP or to itself in the discharge of its duties as NEP GP.NEP's partnership agreement provides that NEP GP must act in good faith when making decisions on NEP's behalf, and NEP's partnership agreement further provides that in order for a determination to be made in good faith, NEP GP must subjectively believe that the determination is in the best interests of NEP.Contracts between NEP, on the one hand, and NEP GP and its affiliates, on the other hand, will not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations.NEP's partnership agreement allows NEP GP to determine, in good faith, any amounts to pay itself or its affiliates for any services rendered to NEP. NEP GP may also enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of its affiliates on NEP's behalf. NEP GP will determine in good faith the terms of any arrangement or transaction entered into after the completion of the IPO. Similarly, agreements, contracts or arrangements between NEP and NEP GP and its affiliates that are entered into from time to time will not be required to be negotiated on an arm’s-length basis, although, in some circumstances, NEP GP may determine that the conflicts committee may make a determination on NEP's behalf with respect to such arrangements.40NEP GP and its affiliates will have no obligation to permit NEP to use any assets or services of NEP GP and its affiliates, except as may be provided in contracts entered into specifically for such use. There is no obligation of NEP GP and its affiliates to enter into any contracts of this kind.Unitholders have no right to enforce the obligations of NEP GP and its affiliates under agreements with NEP.Any agreements between NEP, on the one hand, and NEP GP and its affiliates, on the other hand, will not grant to the unitholders, separate and apart from NEP, the right to enforce the obligations of NEP GP and its affiliates in NEP's favor.NEP GP decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for NEP.The attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for NEP will be retained by NEP GP. Attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for NEP will be selected by NEP GP or NEP's conflicts committee and may perform services for NEP GP and its affiliates. NEP may retain separate counsel for itself or the holders of common units in the event of a conflict of interest between NEP GP and its affiliates, on the one hand, and NEP or the holders of common units, on the other, depending on the nature of the conflict. NEP does not intend to do so in most cases.The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like NEP to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.NEP's common units are listed on the NYSE. Because NEP is a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require NEP to have, and it does not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on NEP GP's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.Taxation RisksNEP's future tax liability may be greater than expected if NEP does not generate NOLs sufficient to offset taxable income or if tax authorities challenge certain of NEP's tax positions.Even though NEP is organized as a limited partnership under state law, it is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and thus will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on NEP's net taxable income. NEP expects to generate NOLs and NOL carryforwards that it can use to offset future taxable income. As a result, NEP does not expect to pay meaningful U.S. federal income tax for approximately 15 years. This estimate is based upon assumptions NEP has made regarding, among other things, NEP OpCo's income, capital expenditures, cash flows, net working capital and cash distributions. Further, the IRS or other tax authorities could challenge one or more tax positions NEP or NEP OpCo takes, such as the classification of assets under the income tax depreciation rules, the characterization of expenses (including, without limitation, NEP's share of the IDR fee) for income tax purposes, the extent to which sales, use or goods and services tax applies to operations in a particular state or the availability of property tax exemptions with respect to NEP's projects. Further, any change in law may affect NEP's tax position. While NEP expects that its NOLs and NOL carryforwards will be available to NEP as a future benefit, in the event that they are not generated as expected, are successfully challenged by the IRS (in a tax audit or otherwise) or are subject to future limitations as described below, NEP's ability to realize these benefits may be limited.NEP's federal, state or Canadian tax positions may be challenged by the relevant tax authority. The process and costs, including, without limitation, potential penalties for nonpayment of disputed amounts, of appealing such challenges, administratively or judicially, regardless of the merits, could be material. A reduction in NEP's expected NOLs, a limitation on NEP's ability to use such losses, or other tax attributes, such as tax credits, and future tax audits or a challenge by tax authorities to NEP's tax positions may result in a material increase in NEP's estimated future income taxes or other tax liabilities, which would negatively impact the amount of after-tax cash distributions to NEP's unitholders and its financial condition.NEP's ability to use NOLs to offset future income may be limited.NEP's ability to use any NOLs generated by NEP could be substantially limited if an “ownership change” were to occur at NEP, as defined under Section 382 of the Code. In general, an “ownership change” would occur if NEP's “5-percent shareholders,” as defined under Section 382 of the Code, including, without limitation, certain groups of persons treated as “5-percent shareholders,” collectively increased their ownership in NEP by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. An ownership change can occur as a result of a public offering of NEP's common units, as well as through secondary market purchases of NEP's common units and certain types of reorganization transactions.A corporation (including, without limitation, any entity, such as NEP, that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) that experiences an “ownership change” will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change NOLs (and certain other losses and/or credits) equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate for the month in which the ownership change occurs. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of 41the carryforward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. However, if the carryforward period for any NOL were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. The carryforward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred. NEP's use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose). Such a limitation could, for any given year, have the effect of increasing the amount of NEP's U.S. federal income tax liability, which would negatively impact the amount of after-tax cash distributions to NEP's unitholders and NEP's financial condition.There are currently no restrictions on the transfer of NEP common units that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change. No assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change may occur in the future, and such an ownership change may impact NEP’s use of its NOLs.NEP will not have complete control over NEP's tax decisions.NEP may be included in the combined or unitary tax returns of NEE or one or more of its subsidiaries for U.S. state or local income tax purposes. NEP will be party to a tax sharing arrangement which will determine the share of taxes that NEP will pay to, or receive from, NEE. In addition, by virtue of NEP's inclusion in NEE’s combined or unitary income tax returns if NEP elects to do so, NEE will effectively control all of NEP's state and local tax decisions in connection with any combined or unitary income tax returns in which NEP is included. NEE will have sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including, without limitation, tax audits) related to NEP, to file all state and local income tax returns on NEP's behalf, and to determine the amount of NEP's liability to, or entitlement to payment from, NEE in connection with any combined or unitary income tax returns in which NEP is included. This may result in conflicts of interest between NEE and NEP. For example, NEE will be able to choose to contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to NEE and detrimental to NEP.A valuation allowance may be required for NEP's deferred tax assets.NEP's expected NOLs will be reflected as a deferred tax asset as they are generated until used to offset income. Additional valuation allowances may be needed for deferred tax assets that NEP estimates are more likely than not to be unusable, based on available evidence at the time the estimate is made. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels and based on input from NEP's tax advisors or regulatory authorities. In the event that NEP were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or a portion of NEP's net deferred tax assets in the future, NEP would reduce such amounts through a charge to income tax expense in the period in which that determination was made, which could have a material adverse impact on NEP's financial condition and results of operations and NEP's ability to maintain profitability.Distributions to unitholders may be taxable as dividends.Even though NEP is organized as a limited partnership under state law, NEP will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, if NEP makes distributions from current or accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such distributions will generally be taxable to unitholders as ordinary dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Distributions paid to non-corporate U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at preferential rates, provided that certain holding period and other requirements are satisfied. However, it is difficult to predict whether NEP will generate earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any given tax year, and although NEP expects that a portion of its distributions to unitholders may exceed its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes and therefore constitute a non-taxable return of capital distribution to the extent of a unitholder’s basis in its units, this may not occur. In addition, although return-of-capital distributions are generally non-taxable to the extent of a unitholder’s basis in its units, such distributions will reduce the unitholder’s adjusted tax basis in its units, which will result in an increase in the amount of gain (or a decrease in the amount of loss) that will be recognized by the unitholder on a future disposition of NEP's common units, and to the extent any return-of-capital distribution exceeds a unitholder’s basis, such distributions will be treated as gain on the sale or exchange of the units.Unitholders who are not resident in Canada may be subject to Canadian tax on gains from the sale of common units if NEP’s common units derive more than 50% of their value from Canadian real property at any time.NEP expects that its common units should not be “taxable Canadian property” for Canadian federal income tax purposes and, consequently, a unitholder who is not resident in Canada should not be subject to Canadian federal income tax on any gain realized from a disposition of a common unit. This is based on NEP’s belief that at all times more than 50% of the value of its common units will not be derived from real property situated in Canada. However, if NEP’s common units were “taxable Canadian property,” a unitholder who is not resident in Canada would be subject to Canadian tax (subject to any exemption under an applicable tax treaty) on any gain realized from a disposition of a common unit that is “taxable Canadian property” of the non-resident at the time of the disposition. Although unitholders should consult their own advisors regarding the application of any tax treaty, many of Canada’s tax treaties, including, without limitation, the Canada-United States Tax Convention (1980), as amended, do not provide a general exemption from Canadian tax for a gain realized from a disposition of property that derives its value principally from real property situated in Canada.42Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone