Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors described elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. It is not possible, however, to predict or identify all such factors. Accordingly, investors should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Negative or uncertain worldwide economic conditions may adversely impact our business. Our operations and performance are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions, which deteriorated significantly during fiscal 2009. Market turmoil and tightened credit availability generally reduced consumer confidence, increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased pricing pressure on products and services, and led to widespread reduction of global business activity. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions has resulted in decreased consumer spending and a significant decline in sales in the automotive, electronics and construction industries worldwide. As a result, we have experienced declines in global demand for our products that serve these industries, with volumes in our Core and Performance Segments for fiscal 2009 more than 20% below the levels that we experienced in fiscal 2008. These developments have resulted in decreased revenues and weaker results of operations. While we have seen signs of recovery and increased demand in most of our businesses, continued weakness in worldwide economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Changes in supply-demand balance in the regions and the industries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. Our key customers continue to shift their manufacturing capacity from mature markets such as North America and Western Europe to emerging regions such as Asia, South America and Eastern Europe. Although we are responding to meet these market demand conditions, we cannot be certain that we will be successful expanding capacity in emerging regions (which depends in part on economic and political conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances) or in reducing capacity in mature regions commensurate with industry demand. Similarly, demand for our customers’ products and our competitors’ reactions to market conditions could affect our financial results. In addition, our Rubber Blacks and Supermetals Businesses are sensitive to changes in industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to decrease when capacity utilization in these businesses decreases, which could affect our financial performance. Our restructuring activities and cost saving initiatives may not achieve the results we anticipate. We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to optimize our asset base, improve operating efficiencies and generate cost savings. In connection with many of these actions we have projected significant one-time and on-going cost savings. The success of these activities is not predictable and we cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be fully realized or maintained over time. In addition, where we have closed manufacturing facilities, we may not be successful in migrating our customers from those closed facilities to our other facilities. Volatility in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could decrease our margins. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond our control. Dramatic increases in such costs or decreases in the availability of raw materials at acceptable costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, movements in the market price for crude oil typically affect carbon black feedstock costs. Significant movements in the market price for crude oil tend to create volatility in our carbon black feedstock costs, which can effect our working capital and results of 14 Table of Contents operations. Although our long-term and some of our annual carbon black supply contracts provide for a price adjustment to account for changes in feedstock costs, there is a lag between the time when we incur feedstock costs and the time when prices are adjusted under some of these contracts. Accordingly, we may not be able to pass increased costs along to our customers when they occur, which can have a significant negative impact on results of operations and cash flows in a given quarter. We have reduced the time lag in many of our long-term contracts as they have come up for renewal, but we may not be successful in reducing the time lag in some or all of the remainder of these contracts as they come up for renewal in the future. In addition, it is possible that a supply contract with a price adjustment mechanism could expire by its terms before we are able to recapture fully our raw material cost increases. We attempt to offset the effects of increases in raw material costs through selling price increases in our non-contract sales, productivity improvements and cost reduction efforts. Success in offsetting increased raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the segment served. Such increases may not be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased raw material and energy costs or may decrease demand for our products and our volume of sales. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of increased raw material or energy costs, it could have a significant impact on our financial results. We depend on a group of key customers for a significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition. Our success in strengthening relationships and growing business with our largest customers and retaining their business over extended time periods could affect our future results. We have a total of nine customers in the tire, silicones, capacitor materials and microelectronics industries that together represent a significant portion of our total net sales and operating revenues. In fiscal 2009, sales to The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company by our Rubber Blacks Business accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues. The loss of any of our important customers, or a reduction in volumes sold to them because of a work stoppage or other disruption, could adversely affect our results of operations until such business is replaced or the disruption ends. Any deterioration of the financial condition of any of our customers or the industries they serve that impairs our customers’ ability to make payments to us also could increase our uncollectible receivables and could affect our future results and financial condition. Our operations involve the handling of hazardous and, in some instances, radioactive materials, and we are subject to extensive safety, health and environmental requirements, which could increase our costs and/or reduce our revenues. Our ongoing operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to safety, health and environmental matters (“SH&E Requirements”), many of which provide for substantial monetary fines and criminal sanctions for violations. These SH&E Requirements include requirements to obtain and comply with various environmental-related permits for constructing any new facilities and operating all of our existing facilities. In June 2009, we received an information request from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) as part of an EPA national initiative focused on the U.S. carbon black manufacturing sector. The information request relates to our Pampa, Texas facility’s compliance with certain regulatory and permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act, including the New Source Review (“NSR”) construction permitting requirements. We responded to EPA’s information request in August 2009 and are awaiting a response from EPA. As a result of this initiative, based upon how EPA has handled similar NSR initiatives with other industrial sectors, it is possible that EPA could attempt to compel us to employ additional technology control devices or approaches with respect to emissions at certain facilities and/or seek a civil penalty from us. In addition, the operation of a chemical manufacturing business as well as the sale and distribution of chemical products involve safety, health and environmental risks. For example, the production and/or processing of carbon black, fumed metal oxides, tantalum, niobium, aerogel and other chemicals involve the handling, transportation, manufacture or use of certain substances or components that may be considered 15 Table of Contents toxic or hazardous within the meaning of applicable SH&E Requirements. The processing of tantalum ore also involves radioactive substances. The transportation of chemical products and other activities associated with the manufacturing process have the potential to cause environmental or other damage as well as injury or death to employees or third parties. We could incur significant expenditures in connection with such operational risks. We believe that our ongoing operations comply with current SH&E Requirements in a manner that should not materially affect our earnings or cash flow in an adverse manner. We cannot be certain, however, that significant costs or liabilities will not be incurred with respect to SH&E Requirements and our operations. Moreover, we are not able to predict whether future changes or developments in SH&E Requirements will affect our earnings or cash flow in a materially adverse manner. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2009, we derived a majority of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in interest rates. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative instruments as well as foreign currency debt. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. We rely on our committed lines of credit to provide us with working capital. At September 30, 2009, we had $460 million in committed lines of credit, including $400 million under a revolving credit facility that matures in August 2010. We plan to replace our revolving credit facility. A replacement facility may be for a lesser amount and a shorter term, and at borrowing costs that are higher than those under our current revolving credit facility. In addition, a new facility may contain more restrictive terms and covenants than our current facility. We have entered into a number of derivative contracts with financial counterparties. The effectiveness of these contracts is dependent on the ability of these financial counterparties to perform their obligations and their nonperformance could harm our financial condition. We have entered into interest rate swap contracts, foreign currency derivatives and forward commodity contracts as part of our financial strategy. The effectiveness of our hedging programs using these instruments is dependent, in part, upon the counterparties to these contracts honoring their financial obligations. While we have not experienced any losses due to counterparty nonperformance, if any of our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations in the future, we could be exposed to increased earnings and cash flow volatility due to an instrument’s failure to hedge a financial risk. We are exposed to political or country risk inherent in doing business in some countries. Sales outside of the United States constituted a majority of our revenues in fiscal 2009. Our operations in some countries may be subject to the following risks: changes in the rate of economic growth; unsettled political or economic conditions; possible expropriation or other governmental actions; social unrest, war, terrorist activities or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; reduced 16 Table of Contents protection of intellectual property rights; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; currency fluctuations and devaluation; the effect of global health, safety and environmental matters on economic conditions and market opportunities; and changes in financial policy and availability of credit. Plant capacity expansions may be delayed and not achieve the expected benefits. Our ability to complete capacity expansions as planned may be delayed or interrupted by the need to obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, availability of labor and materials, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. Moreover, capacity expansion in our Rubber Blacks, Performance Products and Fumed Metal Oxides Businesses could have a negative impact on the financial performance of these businesses until capacity utilization is sufficient to absorb the incremental costs associated with the expansion. The money we spend developing new businesses may not result in a proportional increase in our revenues or profits. We cannot be certain that the costs we incur investing in new businesses will result in a proportional increase in revenues or profits. In addition, the timely commercialization of products that we are developing may be disrupted or delayed by manufacturing or other technical difficulties, market acceptance or insufficient market size to support a new product, competitors’ new products, and difficulties in moving from the experimental stage to the production stage. These disruptions or delays could affect our future results. Any failure to realize benefits from joint ventures, acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect future financial results. As part of our strategies for growth and improved profitability, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments and enter into joint ventures. The success of acquisitions of new technologies, companies and products, or arrangements with third parties is not predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our objectives as anticipated. We may be required to impair or write off certain assets if our assumptions about future sales and profitability prove incorrect. In our analysis of the recoverability of certain assets, namely inventory, property, plant and equipment, investments, intangible assets and deferred tax assets, we have made assumptions about future sales (pricing, volume and region of sale), costs, cash generation and the ultimate profitability of the business and/or tax jurisdiction. These assumptions were based on management’s best estimates and if the actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, we may not be able to realize the value of the assets recorded as of September 30, 2009, which could lead to an impairment or write-off of certain of these assets in the future. Increases in our tax rate may reduce our net income. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including the enactment of the currently proposed U.S. tax legislation; other changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in the estimated realization of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are not always deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another. Any significant increase in our future tax rates could reduce net income in those periods. 17 Table of Contents Regulations requiring a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will impact the carbon black industry, including us. Carbon dioxide is emitted in the carbon black manufacturing process. In December 2005, the European Commission published a new directive that includes carbon black manufacturing in the combustion sector and in Phase II of the Emissions Trading Scheme for the period 2008 to 2012. Various European Union member states have included carbon black facilities in their national allocation plans and we have taken actions to comply with applicable carbon dioxide emission requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase emissions credits if our carbon black operations generate more carbon dioxide than our allocations permit or that the cost of such credits will be acceptable to us. There are also ongoing discussions in other regions and countries, including the United States, Canada, China and Brazil regarding greenhouse gas emission reporting and reduction programs, but those programs have not yet been defined and their potential impact on our manufacturing operations or financial results cannot be estimated at this time. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. As more fully described in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”, we are a party to or the subject of lawsuits, claims, and proceedings, including those involving contract, environmental, and health and safety matters as well as product liability and personal injury claims relating to asbestosis, silicosis, coal worker’s pneumoconiosis and berylliosis, and exposure to various chemicals. Adverse rulings, judgments or settlements in pending or future litigation (including contract litigation and liabilities associated with respirator claims and our former beryllium operations) could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statements. The continued protection of our patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We own various patents and other intellectual property rights in the U.S. and other countries covering many of our products, as well as processes and product uses. In addition, we are a licensee of various patents and intellectual property rights belonging to others in the U.S. and other countries. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the U.S., the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country. Irrespective of our proprietary intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if they are without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend and if we were to lose such claims, we could be subject to injunctions and/or damages, or be required to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. Licensing agreements may not be available to us, and if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns by 18 Table of Contents implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could affect our operations and financial results. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural hazards, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. Such events could disrupt our supply of raw materials or otherwise affect production, transportation and delivery of our products or affect demand for our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 