D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and other documents we file with or furnish to the SEC, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest or making any decision with respect to your investment in any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Statements." Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are a clinical-stage company with no approved products and no historical product revenues, which makes it difficult to assess our future prospects and financial results. We are a biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of uncertainty. Our operations to date have been limited to developing our formulation technology and undertaking pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our proposed drug candidate FP187. As an early stage company, we have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. Consequently, the ability to accurately assess our future operating results or business prospects is more limited than if we had a longer operating history or approved products on the market. Accordingly, the likelihood of our success must be evaluated in light of many potential challenges and variables associated with an early-stage drug development company, many of which are 8 Table of Contents outside our control, and the occurrence of any setbacks could adversely affect our business and prospects. We depend entirely on the success of our only clinical candidate, FP187. We cannot give any assurance that this clinical candidate will successfully complete clinical trials or receive regulatory approval, which is necessary before it can be commercialized. We have invested almost all of our efforts and financial resources in the development of FP187. As a result, our business and future success is almost entirely dependent on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and then successfully commercialize FP187, which has completed Phase 1 testing in healthy volunteers for release characteristics and tolerability, as well as a Phase 2 trial in moderate to severe psoriasis patients, and is being prepared for Phase 3 trials for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, or RRMS, and psoriasis. FP187 will require additional pre-clinical and clinical development, management of clinical and manufacturing activities, and regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions (if regulatory approval can be obtained at all). Further, we will need to secure sources of commercial manufacturing supply, build or partner with a commercial organization, and incur substantial investment and significant marketing efforts before any revenues can be generated from product sales. We are not permitted to market or promote FP187 before we receive regulatory approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or the European Commission, or EC, or other foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approval for FP187. We cannot assure you that any clinical trials for FP187 will be completed in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain marketing approvals or labeling from the FDA, the EC or other foreign regulatory authorities necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of FP187. If FP187 or any future product candidate is not approved and commercialized, we will not be able to generate any product revenues, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and result of operations. Moreover, any delay or setback in the development of any product candidate could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our future growth and ability to compete depends on retaining our key personnel and recruiting additional qualified personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our management, and scientific and technical personnel, many of whom have substantial experience with or been instrumental for us and our development of FP187. These individuals currently include the members of our board of directors consisting of our Chairman, Florian Schönharting, as well as J. Kevin Buchi, Torsten Goesch, and Jan G. J. van de Winkel, and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Peder Møller Andersen, our Chief Financial Officer, Joel Sendek, and Vice President, Finance and Controller, Forward Pharma USA LLC, Thomas Carbone. Our senior scientific advisors include Dr. Kristian Reich, Dr. Ulrich Mrowietz, Dr. Fred D. Lublin, Dr. Per Soelberg Sørensen, Dr. Giancarlo Comi and Dr. Jerry S. Wolinsky. The loss of directors, managers and senior scientific advisors could materially delay our research and development activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and our future success may depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees and consultants. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, it may be difficult for us to implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents We expect to expand our drug development, regulatory and business development capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and consultants and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and business development. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations, and have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our information technology systems could face serious disruptions that could adversely affect our business. Our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems, including corporate firewalls, servers, leased lines and connection to the Internet, face the risk of systemic failure that could disrupt our operations. A significant disruption in the availability of our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems could cause interruptions in our collaborations with our partners and delays in our research and development work. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We rely on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our rights with respect to the development and commercialization of FP187 and other product candidates, the attainment, defense and maintenance of which may be challenging and costly. Failure to obtain, defend or maintain these rights adequately could materially adversely impact our ability to compete and impair our business. Our commercial success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining patents and other forms of intellectual property rights for FP187, as well as on the defense and exploitation of such rights. Failure to protect or to obtain, maintain or extend adequate patent and other intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact our competitive advantage and impair our business. Our patent portfolio consists primarily of two basic patent families, our "Core Composition Patent" family and our "Erosion Matrix Patent" family, along with three other patent families. Our issued patents may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. We have two granted patents in Europe: EP2316430, which covers dimethyl fumarate, or DMF, formulations with certain in vitro dissolution profiles, and EP2379063, which covers erosion matrix formulations with a thin enteric coating. Our other patent families include pending applications PCT/EP2013/066285, PCT/EP2014/068094 and PCT/EP2014/068095 directed, among other things, to dosing regimens of DMF. Both of our European patents have been opposed by third parties before the European Patent Office, or EPO. Multiple parties, including Biogen Idec, Inc., or Biogen, are opposing before the EPO our patents EP2316430 and EP2379063. The EPO may determine that one or more, possibly all, of our claims are invalid and/or may require us to narrow the scope of the claims to avoid a finding of invalidity. Narrowing the scope of the claims may result in FP187 being outside the scope of such claims. 10 Table of Contents Moreover, our other pending applications may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and the EPO and/or any patents issuing thereon may become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings or litigation, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights. Such third-party pre-issuance submissions were filed with the USPTO, questioning each of the two U.S. patent applications from our Core Composition Patent family that had been allowed but have since been voluntarily abandoned by us. It is possible that similar third party preissuance submissions may also be filed if our currently pending patent applications (having substantially the same claims as our earlier allowed but now abandoned applications) are allowed. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, and allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to exploit our intellectual property or develop or commercialize current or future product candidates. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere. Such challenges may result in loss of ownership or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity that we obtain under applicable legislation, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Such developments could enable other companies to circumvent our intellectual property rights and use our clinical trial data to obtain marketing authorizations in the EU and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain any of our patents that issue. Intellectual property rights of third parties could adversely affect our ability to commercialize FP187, such that we could be required to litigate with or obtain licenses from third parties in order to develop or market FP187. Such litigation or licenses could be costly or not available on commercially reasonable terms. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our potential collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell FP187 or other product candidates without infringing valid intellectual property rights of third parties. If a third-party intellectual property right exists that covers the composition of FP187 or the uses and dosages that the regulatory authorities approve for FP187, we may not be in a position to commercialize FP187 unless we successfully pursue litigation or administrative proceedings to nullify or invalidate the third-party intellectual property right concerned, or enter into a license agreement with the intellectual property right holder, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. It is possible that we are unaware of all patents or applications relevant to the manufacture, use or commercialization of FP187. For example, we have not conducted a recent freedom to operate search in connection with FP187 and its use to treat multiple sclerosis, or MS. Any freedom to operate search previously conducted may not have uncovered all relevant patents and patent applications, and there may be pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing 11 Table of Contents FP187. For example, U.S. applications filed before November 29, 2000 and certain U.S. applications filed after that date that will not be filed outside the United States remain confidential until patents issue. Patent applications in the United States (filed November 29, 2000 or later) and elsewhere are published approximately 18 months after the earliest filing for which priority is claimed, with such earliest filing date being commonly referred to as the priority date. Therefore, patent applications covering FP187 or its use to treat MS could have been filed by others without our knowledge. In addition, pending patent applications which have been published can, subject to certain limitations, be later amended in a manner that could cover FP187 or the use of FP187. As a result, we do not know whether the manufacture, use, or commercialization of FP187 or any future product candidates will infringe any third-party patents with valid claims that have been or will in the future be issued. Third-party intellectual property right holders, including our competitors, may actively bring infringement claims against us. We may not be able to successfully settle or otherwise resolve such infringement claims. If we are unable to successfully settle future claims or otherwise resolve such claims on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to engage in or continue costly, unpredictable and time-consuming litigation and may be prevented from, or experience substantial delays in, marketing our product candidates. If we fail to settle or otherwise resolve any such dispute, in addition to being forced to pay damages, we or our potential collaborators may be prohibited from commercializing FP187 or other product candidates we may develop that are held to be infringing for the duration of the patent term. We might, if possible, also be forced to redesign our formulations so that we no longer infringe the third-party intellectual property rights. Any of these events, even if we were ultimately to prevail, could require us to divert substantial financial and management resources that we would otherwise be able to devote to our business. There can be no assurances that an interference proceeding between our U.S. Application No. 11/576,871 and Biogen's U.S. Patent No. 8,399,514 will be declared by the USPTO in the near term or at all, and even if declared, there can be no assurance that any interference proceeding will ultimately result in judgment against Biogen and the cancellation of its patent claims. In addition, there can be no assurance that claims substantially similar to those in our U.S. Application No. 11/576,871 will ever issue in a patent. As of the date of this report, the USPTO Examiner has not reiterated her previous recommendation that an interference proceeding be declared and, even if she does so, the decision to declare an interference is solely within the power of the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, or PTAB. If an interference is declared, the PTAB will issue a declaration of interference within a matter of months or, possibly, years from the date of the initial interference memorandum. The declaration of interference initiates an adversarial proceeding in the USPTO before the PTAB. That proceeding would involve issues including but not limited to, whether an interference proceeding is appropriate, whether the involved claims of the parties are patentable and which party was first to invent any interfering subject matter. We cannot estimate at this time when, or ultimately if, such interference proceeding will be declared, and even if declared, we cannot know or anticipate whether Biogen might be able to assert valid defenses. Failure to prevail in any such interference could adversely impact our ability to market FP187 for RRMS, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that even if we are successful in the opposition proceedings involving our patents currently pending before the EPO, we won't be subject to subsequent or parallel invalidity proceedings (also called "nullity actions" or "revocation actions") involving these same or other patents of ours before a national court in any of the European Patent Convention member states where our patents were validated, which subsequent or parallel proceedings could result in our challenged patents being subject to continued uncertainty as to their validity until such proceedings have been fully concluded. We cannot at this time anticipate how long any such proceedings may last and so when, if at all, our patents currently under challenge will finally be declared to be valid or not. The possibility of parallel validity proceedings in national courts and in the EPO is inherent in the legal arrangements under the European Patent Convention under which the EPO was established. If a third party files an opposition to an EU patent with the EPO and also, in parallel, initiates a revocation action (also called "nullity action" or "validity proceedings") against the same patent before a national court, certain national courts may exercise their discretion to either (i) stay the national proceedings, in order to wait the outcome of the EPO opposition proceedings, or (ii) allow the revocation proceedings to go ahead, without awaiting the outcome of the EPO proceedings. The rules and practice differ from country to country in the EU. For example, certain countries will stay the main proceeding until a final decision has been reached by the EPO whereas in other countries a stay is not automatic and in such cases the courts may continue the proceedings notwithstanding the opposition. In Germany, for example, national nullity proceedings cannot be started before the German Federal Patent Court until the EPO opposition proceedings have been concluded or the opposition period has expired. As a result, it is possible that certain of our patents now subject to opposition proceedings before the EPO will, even if we are ultimately successful before the EPO, again become subject to a revocation action in a country like Germany, which means our challenged patents could be subject to continued uncertainty in the EU as to their validity until such proceedings have been fully concluded. We cannot at this time anticipate how long any such proceedings may last and so when, if at all, our patents currently under challenge will finally be declared to be valid or not. Biogen may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. Biogen has several issued patents and is also prosecuting a number of additional patent applications that could adversely impact our commercial efforts if FP187 were ultimately found to infringe any valid claim by Biogen, in particular if Biogen obtains patent term extensions for certain patents in the U.S. and/or Supplemental Protection Certificates (which also extend the effective life of patents for drugs) in the EU. We are aware of the seven patents Biogen has listed in the FDA's "Orange Book" (See "Business—Government Regulation—United States—Hatch-Waxman Act and Orange Book Listing.") in connection with Tecfidera®, U.S. Patent Nos. 6,509,376, 7,320,999, 7,619,001, 7,803,840, 8,399,514, 8,524,773 and 8,759,393. Our planned regulatory path does not require that we make patent certifications to the FDA in connection with Biogen's Orange Book-listed patents, and at least two of the Biogen patents will expire before we anticipate receiving marketing approval for FP187. In Germany, and possibly other or all European countries (including member states of the EU and the European Economic Area, or EEA, as well as Switzerland), Biogen has filed an application for a Supplementary Protection Certificate, or SPC, using EP1131065B1 (European counterpart to U.S. Patent No. 6,509,376) and EP2137537B1 (European counterpart to U.S. Patent No. 8,399,514) as the basic patents. The applications of the SPCs in Germany have the application Nos. DE122014000068.9 and DE122014000069.7. An SPC may extend the effective monopoly of a basic patent by a maximum of five years. The SPC term may be further extended by an additional six months in accordance with Art. 36 of Regulation 1901/2006, if the requirements for a pediatric extension are met. 13 Table of Contents We are also aware of the European counterpart to U.S. Patent No. 8,399,514, EP2137537B1. As discussed with respect to our "Core Composition Patent" family, we have opposed EP2137537B1 and are seeking to provoke an interference between one of our U.S. patent applications and Biogen's U.S. Patent No. 8,399,514. In the U.S., Biogen's pending patent applications include U.S. Application No. 13/266,997 (notice of allowance mailed on August 14, 2014, but later abandoned), U.S. Application No. 13/767,014, U.S. Application No. 13/800,128, U.S. Application No. 14/119,373, U.S. Application No. 14/124,562, U.S. Application No. 13/760,916, and U.S. Application No. 13/827,228. In Europe, Biogen's pending patent applications include EP2424357, EP2713724 and several others. One or more of these applications could adversely impact our commercial efforts if our marketing of FP187 once approved by the FDA for the treatment of RRMS and/or psoriasis was ultimately found to infringe any valid patent claim issuing from any one of these applications. Biogen's patents and patent applications are said to relate to pharmaceutical preparations of DMF and methods for treating immune disorders such as psoriasis and MS using DMF. Some of the patents and patent applications claim dosing regimens, and include claims directed to a method for treating MS through the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of DMF at about a 480 mg daily dose. If such patent claims were asserted against us, we would vigorously contest such an action. However, the outcome of such potential proceedings would be unpredictable and if such patents were held to be valid, enforceable and infringed by the commercialization of FP187, we could be prevented from continuing to commercialize our product candidates, unless we obtain a license to such patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we market FP187 and are later found to infringe one or more of Biogen's patents, we could also be required to pay substantial damages. Our drug candidate FP187 is still under development and, if we pursue versions of FP187 that are modified from those used in our Phase 1 trials and Phase 2 clinical trial, such modified FP187 products may be considered outside the scope of our patent families and, as a result, our ability to protect our overall patent estate could be threatened. In connection with our Phase 1 trials and Phase 2 clinical trial, we have used various versions of FP187 we believe to be within the scope of our existing patent families. There can be no assurance, however, that if we choose to pursue new or different versions of FP187 from those used in our Phase 1 trials and Phase 2 trial, that such modified FP187 products will not be considered outside of the scope of our patent families. In such event, such modified FP187 products could be subject to challenges in connection with new patent proceedings or otherwise by patent registry offices, our competitors and others, the outcome of which could, if ultimately determined adversely to us, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect and defend our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file claims, and any related litigation and/or prosecution of such claims can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid in whole or in part, unenforceable, or construe the patent's claims narrowly allowing the other party to commercialize competing products on the grounds that our patents do not cover such products. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our technical and management 14 Table of Contents personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. The effects of patent litigation or other proceedings could therefore have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. We enjoy only limited geographical protection with respect to certain of our patents and may face difficulties in certain jurisdictions, which may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights in those jurisdictions. Our two earliest patent filings, PCT/DK2005/000648 and PCT/EP2010/050172, have limited geographic reach beyond the U.S. and Europe. PCT/DK2005/000648 has multiple pending U.S. counterparts, a granted European patent, a pending European patent application, three divisional applications, a German utility model and a pending Japanese counterpart. PCT/EP2010/050172 has a U.S. counterpart pending, a European patent granted, a European application pending, has Japanese, Eurasian, Indian, Chinese, Korean, Russian and Georgian counterparts pending and a granted patent in the Ukraine. We may decide to abandon national and regional patent applications in Europe and outside Europe and the U.S. before they are granted, if at all. Finally, the grant proceeding of each national/regional patent is an independent proceeding which may lead to situations in which applications might in some jurisdictions be refused by the relevant registration authorities, while granted by others. It is also quite common that depending on the country, the scope of patent protection may vary for the same product. For example, in some jurisdictions, it is not possible to obtain patents on dosing regimens. The laws of some jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the U.S. and the EU, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in such jurisdictions. If we or our collaboration partners encounter difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, the intellectual property rights important for our business in such jurisdictions, the value of these rights may be diminished and we may face additional competition from others in those jurisdictions. Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Third parties may claim rights including ownership rights in our intellectual property. None of the named inventors on our patent and patent applications were our employees at the time of the filing of the Core Composition Patent family, which we acquired from Aditech Pharma AB (collectively with its successor-in-interest, a Swiss company Aditech Pharma AG, or Aditech). Two of the named inventors of the Core Composition Patent family were consultants of Aditech and, while obligated under their consulting agreements to assign their rights in the Core Composition Patent family to Aditech, were employed by other institutions at the time they were named as inventors. While such institutions have not made any claims to ownership, there can be no assurance they will not do so in the future. Later-filed patent families were filed by us, but some of the named inventors were acting only in a consultant capacity to us. Some of these consultants, while obligated under their consulting agreements 15 Table of Contents to assign their rights in such patent families to us, were employed by other institutions prior to or at the time they made their inventions. While such institutions have not made any ownership claims to the inventions disclosed in the later-filed patent families, there can be no assurance they will not do so in the future. Named inventors on our patent applications, whether filed by us or acquired from Aditech, could also challenge whether their property rights were properly assigned, if at all. Further, other individuals (including persons not known to us or their employers) could make claims or assertions that they are inventors and/or owners of our intellectual property. Under mandatory Danish law, a salaried employee having made a patentable invention (and products that may be subject to registration as an industrial designer right) through his service with an employer has the rights to such invention, provided however, that the rights to the patentable invention upon the employer's request shall be transferred to the employer, to the extent not otherwise agreed, provided that the use of such patentable invention falls within the "working area" of the employer or it is a result of a specific assignment given by the employer to the employee. Such a transfer is, however, subject to an obligation on the employer, following which the employer shall pay to the employee a "reasonable compensation." The fee shall be fixed considering the value of the invention and its consequences for the employer, the employee's terms of employment and the impact that the employee's service has had for the invention. In the event that the value of the invention does not exceed what the employee, taking his working conditions as a whole into account, reasonably could be expected to achieve, the employee is not entitled to any fee. The compensation payable by the employer is not subject to any maximum amount and may be paid either as a lump sum or as a continuing royalty payment based on, for example, the number of items produced based on the invention. An employee's claim for compensation may become time-barred or forfeited due to the employee's passive behavior. The general relative time-barring deadline under Danish law is five years with respect to claims based on employment matters, whereas the general absolute deadline for such claims is ten years. Some of the named inventors on our newer applications (not the Core Composition Patent or Erosion Matrix Patent) are employees of our wholly owned German subsidiary Forward Pharma GmbH and thus are subject to German employment law. German employment law governs the transfer/assignment of any intellectual property rights generated by such employees. In particular, any inventions eligible for patent protection made by such employees are subject to the provisions of the German Act on Employees' Inventions (Gesetz üeber Arbeitnehmererfindungen), which regulates the ownership of, and compensation for, inventions made by employees. The law provides for a formal procedure for the transfer of employee's rights to patentable inventions which result from performance of the tasks the employee is charged with at the Company or which are based to a significant extent on the experiences or works of the Company, upon employer's request within a certain period of time after notification by employee. We believe that inventive contributions made by employees of Forward Pharma GmbH were made after the amended version of the German Act on Employees' Inventions came into force on October 1, 2009 and thus the amended version of the law exclusively applies to such inventions. Prior to October 1, 2009, such formal procedure had been susceptible to faults. The amendments to the law facilitate the transfer of rights in employees' inventions to the employer by replacing the former opt-in approach by an opt-out approach. Following the transfer of rights, an employee is entitled to a claim for "reasonable compensation" to be calculated on an individual basis (e.g., revenue achieved through exploitation of the patent). In addition, the German Act on Employees' Invention provides for certain obligations on the employer including the obligation to apply for patent protection in Germany, the obligation to release the invention for application in those countries where the employer does not want to apply for a patent 16 Table of Contents and the obligation to offer to the employee granted patents or pending patent applications if the employer intends to abandon rights in any country. We face the risk that disputes can occur between us and employees or ex-employees of Forward Pharma GmbH pertaining to alleged non-adherence to the provisions of this act. Such disputes may be costly to defend and take up our management's time and efforts whether we prevail or fail in such dispute. If we are required to pay additional compensation or face other disputes under the German Act on Employees' Inventions, in particular in case of a failed transfer of rights, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Intellectual property rights do not address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain any competitive advantage we may enjoy. The following examples are illustrative: • Others may be able to make DMF-based products that are similar to FP187 but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own. • Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or otherwise circumvent any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights. • We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to conceive and reduce to practice the inventions covered by the patents or patent applications that we own, license or will own or license. • We or any of our collaboration partners might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of the patents or patent applications that we or they own or have obtained a license, or will own or will have obtained a license. • It is possible that our pending patent applications will not lead to issued patents. • Issued patents that we own may not provide us with any competitive advantage, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors. • Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights, or in countries where research and development safe harbor laws exist, and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets. • Ownership of our patents or patent applications may be challenged by third parties. • The patents of third parties or pending or future applications of third parties, if issued, may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in patent laws or patent jurisprudence could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products or product candidates. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and exploiting patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and exploiting biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection 17 Table of Contents available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. Such examples include: • Nautilus, Inc. v. Biosig Instruments, Inc. (2014), where the Court imposed a stricter requirement for clarity of claim language than previously applied by the Federal Circuit, thereby making it easier to invalidate patents for insufficiently apprising the public of the scope of the invention. • Limelight Networks, Inc. v. Akamai Technologies, Inc. (2014), where the Court articulated a standard for inducement of infringement that makes it more difficult to establish liability for inducing infringement of a multi-step method claim that is performed by multiple parties. • Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc. (2013), where the Court held that isolated naturally-occurring DNA is patent ineligible subject matter. •KSR v. Teleflex (2007), where the Court decided unanimously that the Federal Circuit Court had been wrong in taking a narrow view of when an invention is "obvious" and thus cannot be patented. •EBay Inc. v. MercExchange, LLC (2006), where the Court heightened the standard for an injunction after a finding of patent infringement. •Merck KGgA v. Integra Lifesciences (2004), where the Court adopted an expansive interpretation of the activities associated with regulatory approval exempt from patent infringement. The America Invents Act, or AIA, has been recently enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. patent system. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, the combination of the U.S. Supreme Court decisions and AIA has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. A few highlights of changes to U.S. patent law under the AIA are: • Under the AIA, a patent is awarded to the "first-inventor-to-file" rather than the first to invent. • There is a new definition of prior art which removes geographic and language boundaries found in the pre-AIA law. At the same time, certain categories of "secret" prior art have been eliminated. • The AIA introduced new procedures for challenging the validity of issued patents: post-grant review and inter partes review. • Patent owners under the AIA may now request supplemental examination of a patent to consider, reconsider, or correct information believed to be relevant to the patent. • The AIA allows third parties to submit any patent, published application, or publication relevant to examination of a pending patent application with a concise explanation for inclusion during prosecution of the patent application. The "first-inventor-to-file" system and the new definitions of prior art apply to U.S. patent applications with claims having an effective filing date on or after March 16, 2013. Until at least 2034, patent practice will involve both pre-AIA and AIA laws. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to exploit our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Similarly, the complexity and uncertainty of European patent laws has also increased in recent years. In addition, the European patent system is relatively stringent in the type of amendments that are allowed during prosecution and opposition proceedings. Changes in patent law or patent jurisprudence could limit our ability to obtain new patents in the future that may be important for our business. 18 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and protect other proprietary information. We consider proprietary trade secrets and/or confidential know-how and unpatented know-how to be important to our business. We may rely on trade secrets and/or confidential know-how to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is believed by us to be of limited value. However, trade secrets and/or confidential know-how can be difficult to maintain as confidential. To protect this type of information against disclosure or appropriation by competitors, our policy is to require our employees, consultants, contractors and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. However, current or former employees, consultants, contractors and advisers may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third-party obtained illegally and is using trade secrets and/or confidential know-how is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. The enforceability of confidentiality agreements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secrets and/or confidential know-how could adversely affect our competitive position. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and may even apply for patent protection in respect of the same. If successful in obtaining such patent protection, our competitors could limit our use of our trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. Risks Related to the Development, Pre-clinical Testing, Clinical Testing, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization of FP187 Pre-clinical and clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with uncertain timelines and uncertain outcomes. If pre-clinical or clinical trials of FP187 are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to obtain required regulatory approvals, and therefore be unable to commercialize FP187 on a timely basis or at all. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell FP187, we must demonstrate through extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials that it is safe and effective in humans for its intended use. The process for obtaining governmental approval to market FP187 is rigorous, time-consuming and costly. It is impossible to predict the extent to which this process may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. Due to these and other factors, FP187 or future product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected or may never gain regulatory approval. This could delay or eliminate any potential product revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of FP187. Pre-clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA, EMA and other applicable regulatory authorities' legal requirements, regulations or guidelines, including good laboratory practice, or GLP, an international standard meant to harmonize the conduct and quality of nonclinical studies and the reporting of findings. Pre-clinical studies including long-term toxicity studies and carcinogenicity studies in experimental animals may result in findings which may require further evaluation, which could affect the risk-benefit evaluation of clinical development, or which may even lead the regulatory agencies to delay, prohibit the initiation of or halt clinical trials or delay or deny marketing authorization applications. Failure to adhere to the applicable GLP standards or misconduct during the course of the study may invalidate the study requiring repeat of the study. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA, EMA and other applicable regulatory authorities' legal requirements, regulations or guidelines, including good clinical practice, or GCP, an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators, and monitors. Clinical trials are further subject to oversight by 19 Table of Contents these governmental agencies and Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of FP187 produced under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other requirements. Our clinical trials are conducted at multiple sites, including some sites in countries outside the U.S. and the EU, which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of non-U.S. and non-EU clinical research organizations, as well as expose us to risks associated with clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA or the European regulatory authorities, and with different standards of diagnosis, screening and medical care. To date, we have neither commenced nor completed all clinical trials required for the approval of FP187, which is currently being prepared for Phase 3 testing. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for FP187 may be delayed, suspended or terminated as a result of many factors, including but not limited to: • negative or inconclusive results, which may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical or clinical trials or to abandon projects that we expect to be promising; • safety or tolerability concerns could cause us to suspend or terminate a trial if we find that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • the delay or refusal of regulators or IRBs to authorize us to commence a clinical trial at a prospective trial site and changes in regulatory requirements, policies and guidelines; • regulators or IRBs requiring that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • delays in establishing or failure to establish acceptable clinical trial sites; • delays in reaching or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • the inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect statistically significant treatment effects; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • our third-party research and manufacturing contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; • delays in establishing the appropriate dosage levels; • the quality or stability of FP187 falling below acceptable standards; • the inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of FP187 to complete clinical trials; and • exceeding budgeted costs due to difficulty in predicting accurately costs associated with clinical trials. Positive or timely results from pre-clinical studies and early stage clinical trials do not ensure positive or timely results in late stage clinical trials or product approval by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities. Products that show positive pre-clinical or early clinical results may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approvals and therefore fail in later stage clinical trials. The FDA, the 20 Table of Contents EMA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process, and determining when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for FP187. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of FP187 are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA, the EMA or any other regulatory authority. We could encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, by the IRBs of the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, by the Data Monitoring Committee, or DMC, for such trial or by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities. We or such authorities may impose a suspension or termination due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using the drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of FP187, the commercial prospects of FP187 will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from this product will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow the FP187 development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of FP187. Significant clinical trial delays could also allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do or shorten any periods during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize FP187, either of which could impair our ability to commercialize FP187 and harm our business and results of operations. The FDA and/or the EMA/EC may determine that our proposed single Phase 3 trial for the use of FP187 for the treatment of RRMS, including any Expanded Disability Status Sale, or EDSS, and Sustained Accumulation of Disability, or SAD, data generated through the date of our NDA, is insufficient for approval of FP187, which would delay or could prevent the approval of FP187 and adversely affect our prospects. We filed our Investigational New Drug, or IND, for FP187 as a drug to treat RRMS in the U.S. on April 30, 2014. On June 10, 2014, the FDA sent us a "may proceed" letter, indicating that the IND is active and that we may conduct studies in humans. In August 2013, we had held a pre-IND Application meeting with the FDA, prior to which we submitted a briefing book including a proposal for a large, single Phase 3 trial. Approval by the FDA of a New Drug Application, or NDA, is dependent on a number of factors. A final decision as to whether the program we shared with the FDA at a high level in advance of our pre-IND meeting will be sufficient for approval (including the sufficiency of our proposed single Phase 3 trial and whether a favorable effect on SAD, EDSS or other secondary endpoints will need to be demonstrated by us at the time of our NDA submission) can only be made by the FDA once it has reviewed our full NDA package. In addition, since we intend to rely on a single Phase 3 trial to demonstrate the effectiveness of FP187, the usual demonstration of the statistical significance of the superiority of FP187 to the active comparator drug in the primary efficacy endpoint (p<0.05) is unlikely to be sufficient to obtain approval. We currently expect that we will be required to demonstrate a two sided p<0.01 for our primary efficacy endpoint of ARR and two sided p<0.05 for the key secondary efficacy endpoint of SAD and/or other secondary endpoints (e.g., MRI scans) while retaining the primary efficacy advantage for FP187 through the full two year study. Importantly, during our pre-IND meeting, the FDA explained that although a low p-value may be one of the contributing factors for approval supported by a single study, such low p-value alone is not sufficient for approval, and that a final decision can only be made once the results from the study are reviewed. The FDA commented that consideration of an 21 Table of Contents approval supported by a single study is based on many factors as described in "Guidance for Industry: Providing clinical evidence of effectiveness for human drug and biological products (May, 1998)". Overall, there can be no assurances that the FDA will ultimately accept the data from our single Phase 3 trial (including the SAD data we have generated at the time of submission or at a later date) as sufficient for approval when we file our NDA or at all, or that we will be able to timely file such an NDA. Similarly, in the EU, we may experience a delay in submitting our market authorization application to the EMA and can have no assurances that the EC ultimately will approve FP187 as a drug for the treatment of RRMS. If serious adverse, undesirable or unacceptable side effects are identified during the development or commercialization of FP187, we or our collaboration partners may need to abandon or limit development or commercialization of FP187. If FP187 or any other product candidate we develop is associated with serious adverse, undesirable or unacceptable side effects, we may need to abandon such candidate's development or limit development to certain uses or sub-populations in which such side effects are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early-stage or clinical testing have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. Undesirable side effects caused by FP187 or another product candidate we develop could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA, the EC or other comparable foreign authorities. Results of our trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of these or other side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA, EMA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. The drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. To date, seven Serious Adverse Events, or SAEs, have been reported in our clinical trials for FP187, which have included 318 treated subjects. Five cases were classified by the investigator as being unrelated to the use of FP187, while two cases were judged by the investigator as being possibly related to the use of FP187. One patient, who had hypertension and a family history of cardiovascular diseases experienced a transient ischemic attack, or TIA, while a second patient experienced severe abdominal pain over a period of approximately 24 hours. The patient experiencing the TIA discontinued the treatment regimen but the patient experiencing abdominal pain continued the treatment regimen after being discharged from the hospital without additional drug-related AEs. These cases have been reported to the FDA and European regulatory authorities but have not resulted in any requests from the authorities. The occurrence of these or other serious adverse, undesirable or unacceptable side effects could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. It is documented in the Tecfidera® labeling and through experience using Fumaderm® that the use of products containing DMF, the sole active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in FP187, may cause a decrease in lymphocytes (white blood cells) in humans, thereby possibly increasing the potential for infection. To date, we are not aware of instances in which this side effect has prevented the FDA or the EC from approving RRMS drugs such as Tecfidera®, although it is expected that each of the FDA and the EMA will require us to monitor the incidence of this condition, known as lymphopenia and will evaluate whether FP187 increases the potential for infections during the review of our NDA in the U.S. and market authorization application in the EU. 22 Table of Contents If FP187 or another product candidate we develop receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such product, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product; • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the labeling; • we or our collaboration partners may be required to create a medication guide or risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, addressing the risks of such side effect; • we or our collaboration partners could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of FP187 or any other product candidate, if approved, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. Positive results in previous clinical trials of FP187 may not be replicated in future clinical trials of FP187, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval. Positive results in previous clinical trials of FP187 may not be predictive of similar results in future clinical trials. In addition, interim results during a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for FP187 may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA or EMA/EC approval for their products. We depend on enrollment of patients in our clinical trials for FP187. If we are unable to enroll patients in our clinical trials, our research and development efforts and business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Successful and timely completion of clinical trials will require that we enroll a sufficient number of patient candidates. Trials may be subject to delays as a result of patient enrollment taking longer than anticipated or patient withdrawal. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, eligibility criteria for the trial, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the nature of the trial protocol, competing clinical trials and the availability of new drugs approved for the indication the clinical trial is investigating. With respect to our clinical development of FP187 in RRMS, our proposed Phase 3 trial is particularly ambitious, requiring the recruitment of up to 2,000 RRMS patients worldwide. We have no experience in managing a clinical trial of this scope, in centers throughout the world, and we will need to significantly increase our clinical development resources in order to successfully manage and oversee this process. Enrollment of a sufficient number of patients in the Phase 3 trial for RRMS, the size of which is, to our knowledge, unprecedented for drugs intended for the treatment of RRMS, will depend on our ability to convince physicians and patients at the trial sites of the clinical meaningfulness of our study, and the recent availability of oral therapies such as Gilenya® (fingolimod), Aubagio® (teriflunomide) and Tecfidera® (another DMF formulation) may cause patients to be less willing to participate in our clinical trial for an oral therapy in regions in which one of these alternative oral therapies has been 23 Table of Contents approved. Since RRMS is a competitive market in certain regions, such as the U.S. and the EU, with a number of drug candidates in development, patients may have other choices with respect to potential clinical trial participation and we may have difficulty reaching our enrollment targets. We may become exposed to costly and damaging liability claims, either when testing FP187 or any other product candidates we develop in the clinic or at the commercial stage; and our product liability insurance may not cover all damages from such claims. We are exposed to potential product liability and professional indemnity risks that are inherent in the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical products. Currently we have no products that have been approved for commercial sale; however, the current and future use of FP187 or other product candidates by us and our collaboration partners in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made by patients that use the product, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, our collaboration partners or others selling such products. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could be difficult and costly to defend and could materially adversely affect the market for FP187 or any prospects for commercialization of FP187. Although the clinical trial process is designed to identify and assess potential side effects, it is always possible that a drug, even after regulatory approval, may exhibit unforeseen side effects. If FP187 were to cause adverse side effects during clinical trials or after approval of the product candidate, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Physicians and patients may not comply with any warnings that identify known potential adverse effects and patients who should not use FP187. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance for FP187 (currently coverage is for $2 million), it is possible that our liabilities could exceed our insurance coverage. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products and increase the amount of our coverage if we obtain marketing approval for FP187. However, we may be unable to obtain any insurance covering the sale of FP187, once commercialized, or may be unable to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. Should any of the events described above occur, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product candidate FP187 is subject to extensive regulation, compliance with which is costly and time consuming, may cause unanticipated delays, or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidate. We and our collaboration partners are not permitted to market our product candidate FP187 until we receive regulatory approval from regulatory authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the products involved, as well as the target indications. Approval policies or regulations may change and regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit, or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. Despite the time and expense invested in clinical development of product candidates, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. 24 Table of Contents The FDA, the EMA or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities can delay, limit, or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • such authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials or the adequacy of our pre-clinical studies; • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; • such authorities may not accept clinical data from trials which are conducted at clinical facilities or in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from the United States; • we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; and • such authorities may find deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies. In addition, competitors could attempt to use the regulatory process to attempt to delay or prevent approval of FP187. For example, a competitor could file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking a ruling from the FDA that the use of a single Phase 3 trial as a basis for approving FP187 is not appropriate. We believe that, if our proposed Phase 3 trial for FP187 is successful and the results meet our expectations, the FDA will have a proper basis for approving our NDA for FP187. However, the filing of a citizen petition could delay any approval of FP187 by the FDA, which would adversely affect our prospects. Should any of the events described above occur, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if FP187 obtains regulatory approval, it will be subject to continual regulatory review. If marketing authorization is obtained for FP187, it will remain subject to continual review and therefore authorization could be subsequently withdrawn or restricted. We and our collaboration partners will be subject to ongoing obligations and oversight by regulatory authorities, including Adverse Event, or AE, reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and, potentially, other post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize FP187. We and our collaboration partners will also be subject to regulatory requirements covering the manufacturing of FP187, including maintaining compliance with cGMP, and our contract manufacturers will be subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. If there are changes in the application of legislation or regulatory policies, or if problems are discovered with a product or our manufacture of a product, or if we or one of our collaboration partners fails to comply with regulatory requirements, the regulators could take various actions. These include issuing warning and/or untitled letters to us, imposing fines on us, imposing restrictions on FP187 or its manufacture, requiring us to recall or remove the product from the market, entering an injunction against us, requiring us to enter into a consent decree, and pursuing criminal prosecution against us. The regulators could also suspend or withdraw our marketing authorizations or require us to conduct additional clinical trials, change our product labeling or submit additional applications for marketing authorization. If any of these events occurs, our ability to sell such product may be impaired, and we may incur substantial additional expense to comply with regulatory requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Agencies like the FDA and national competition laws in Europe regulate the promotion and uses of drugs not consistent with approved product labeling requirements. If we are found to have improperly promoted FP187 for uses beyond those that are approved, we may become subject to significant liability. Regulatory authorities like the FDA and national competition laws in Europe (e.g., the German Heilmittelwerbegesetz) strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products, such as FP187, if approved. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA, the EMA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. For example, the FDA requires substantial evidence, which generally consists of two adequate and well-controlled head-to-head clinical trials, for a company to make a claim that its product is superior to another product in terms of safety or effectiveness. Unless we perform clinical trials comparing FP187 to Tecfidera®, we will not be able promote FP187 by making comparative claims to Tecfidera®. If we are found to have made such claims we may become subject to significant liability. In the U.S., the federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in improper promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. Due to our limited resources and access to capital, we must decide to prioritize development of FP187 for certain indications and at certain doses; these decisions may prove to have been wrong and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Because we have limited resources and access to capital to fund our operations, we must decide which dosages and indications to pursue for the clinical development of FP187 and the amount of resources to allocate to each. Our decisions concerning the allocation of research, collaboration, management and financial resources toward dosages or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources away from better opportunities. If we make incorrect determinations regarding the market potential of FP187 or misread trends in the biopharmaceutical industry, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we may become exposed to liability and substantial expenses in connection with environmental compliance or remediation activities which may disrupt or delay our production and development efforts and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations, including our research, development, testing and manufacturing activities, are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the controlled use, handling, release and disposal of, and the maintenance of a registry for, hazardous materials and biological materials, such as chemical solvents, human cells, carcinogenic compounds, mutagenic compounds and compounds that have a toxic effect on reproduction, laboratory procedures and exposure to blood-borne pathogens. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions. As with other companies engaged in activities similar to ours, we face a risk of environmental liability inherent in our current and historical activities, including liability relating to releases of or exposure to hazardous or biological materials. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are becoming more stringent. We may be required to incur substantial expenses in connection with future environmental compliance or remediation activities, in which case our production and development efforts may be interrupted or delayed and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Our research and development activities could be affected or delayed as a result of possible restrictions on animal testing. Certain laws and regulations require us to test our product candidates on animals before initiating clinical trials involving humans. Animal testing activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting these activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our research and development activities may be interrupted, delayed or become more expensive. Enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize FP187 and may affect the prices we may set. In the U.S., the EU and some other foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system. These changes could prevent or delay marketing approval of FP187, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any products for which we obtain marketing approval. In the U.S., the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the Medicare Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sale prices for physician-administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Cost-reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the Medicare Modernization Act applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. More recently, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the ACA revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may affect our business practices with health care practitioners. We will not know the full effects of the ACA until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the ACA, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Both in the U.S. and in the EU, legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of FP187, if any, may be. 27 Table of Contents Our relationships with customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and others play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable healthcare laws and regulations include the following: • the U.S. healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under U.S. healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • the U.S. False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the U.S. government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; • the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • the U.S. false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits items or services; • the transparency requirements under the ACA require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests; and • analogous laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from U.S. government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business with is found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, 28 Table of Contents they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. We operate in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to discover, develop and obtain marketing approval for new and innovative products on a cost-effective basis and to market them successfully. In doing so, we face and will continue to face intense competition from a variety of businesses, including large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biopharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research institutions in the U.S., the EU and other jurisdictions. These organizations may have significantly greater resources than we do and conduct similar research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing of products that compete with FP187. We believe that our key competitor in the commercialization of DMF for RRMS is Biogen, which has developed Tecfidera®, an oral treatment with RRMS. Tecfidera® has been approved in the U.S., Canada, Australia and the EU. The fact that Tecfidera® has been commercialized and is being marketed in the U.S. may render our development and discovery efforts in the area of DMF for the treatment of RRMS uncompetitive. Other companies are also developing alternative therapeutic approaches to the treatment of RRMS. These alternative therapeutic approaches may be used as complementary to the use of FP187 for the treatment of RRMS, but they could also be competitive. The highly competitive nature of and rapid technological changes in the pharmaceutical and biotechnological industries could render FP187 or our technology obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may, among other things: • develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, less expensive, or more convenient or easier to administer; • obtain quicker regulatory approval; • establish superior proprietary positions; • have access to more manufacturing capacity; • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; or • form more advantageous strategic alliances. Should any of these factors occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The successful commercialization of FP187 and any other products we develop will depend, in part, on the extent to which governmental authorities, health insurers and other third-party payors establish adequate reimbursement levels and pricing policies. The successful commercialization of FP187 and any other products we develop will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party coverage and reimbursement for our product will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. These bodies may deny or revoke the reimbursement status of a given drug product or establish prices for new or existing marketed products at levels that are too low to enable us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Obtaining and maintaining 29 Table of Contents reimbursement status is time-consuming and costly. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. Furthermore, rules and regulations regarding reimbursement change frequently, in some cases at short notice, and we believe that changes in these rules and regulations are likely. In addition, many governments and health insurers are increasingly attempting to manage healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future products. These concerns are particularly present for drugs like FP187 that use an API that is already available in other, approved drugs. Public and private payors may only be willing to provide coverage for FP187 if we can demonstrate a significant clinical advantage, or offer the drug at a price resulting in a treatment cost lower than other available drugs. Public and private payors may not be willing to grant reimbursement prices in line with our expectations if they do not share our views concerning the advantages of our proprietary formulation technology, in particular if they do not give as much weight as we do to, for example, what we expect will be reductions in flushing as a side effect. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party coverage and reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on the market acceptance of FP187 and the future revenues we may expect to receive from it. In addition, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. FP187 and any other products we develop may not gain market acceptance, in which case we may not be able to generate product revenues, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if the FDA, the EMA or any other regulatory authority approves the marketing of any products that we develop on our own or with a collaboration partner, physicians, healthcare providers, patients or the medical community may not accept or use them. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or any profits from operations. The degree of market acceptance of FP187 will depend on a variety of factors, including: • the timing of market introduction; • the number and clinical profile of competing products; • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • cost-effectiveness; • patient diagnostics and screening infrastructure in each market; • marketing and distribution support; • availability of coverage, reimbursement and adequate payment from health maintenance organizations and other insurers, both public and private; and • other potential advantages over alternative treatment methods. If FP187 or any other product we develop fails to gain market acceptance, this will have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues to provide a satisfactory, or any, return on our investment. Even if some products achieve market acceptance, the market may not prove to be large enough to allow us to generate significant revenues. 30 Table of Contents We have never commercialized a product candidate, and we currently have no marketing and sales organization. To the extent our product candidate FP187 is approved for marketing, if we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may not be able to effectively market and sell FP187 or generate product revenue. We have never commercialized a product candidate, and we currently do not have a marketing or sales organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of FP187 and do not intend to create one. In order to commercialize any of our products that receive marketing approval, we would have to build marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, and we may not be successful in doing so. In the event of successful development of FP187, if we elect to build a targeted specialty sales force, such an effort would be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. With respect to FP187, we may choose to partner with third parties that have their own sales forces and established distribution systems, in lieu of or to augment any sales force and distribution systems we may create. If we are unable to enter into collaborations with third parties for the commercialization of approved products, if any, on acceptable terms or at all, or if any such partner does not devote sufficient resources to the commercialization of our product or otherwise fails in commercialization efforts, we may not be able to successfully commercialize FP187 if it receives regulatory approval. If we are not successful in commercializing FP187, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future revenue will be materially and adversely impacted. Risks Related to our Financial Position and Capital Needs We have a history of operating losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we fail to obtain additional funding to conduct our planned research and development effort, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercial development efforts. We incurred net losses of $19.0 million and $15.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $107.7 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of FP187, from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure, and from fair value adjustments to certain convertible loans and net settlement obligations to shareholder warrants. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval and commercialization of FP187. To date, we have financed our operations through our initial public offering completed in October 2014, private placements of equity securities, grants from governmental bodies, and debt financing arrangements. We have never generated any revenues from product sales. Based on our current plans, we do not expect to generate significant product revenues unless and until we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, FP187. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements beyond the next 12 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We will have to seek additional funding to complete our Phase 3 clinical trials in RRMS and psoriasis, and to commercialize any of our product candidates. Additional funds may not be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all, and such funds, if raised, may not be sufficient to enable us to continue to implement our long-term business strategy. In addition, we may not be able to obtain further funding from governmental bodies. 31 Table of Contents Even if we do generate product royalties or product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis or at all. Our failure to sustain profitability could depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the market price of our ordinary shares also could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to holders of our shares or the ADSs, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or products. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of our existing cash and cash equivalents and additional financings, if needed. In the event we need to seek additional funds, we may raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities. In such an event, the ownership interests of our existing equity holders will be diluted, and the terms of any new securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing equity holders. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or products or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market FP187 or other product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Exchange rate fluctuations or abandonment of the Euro currency may materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the international scope of our operations, fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the Danish Kroner and the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect us. Although we are based in Denmark, we source research and development, manufacturing, consulting and other services from several countries. We have also invested in bonds issued by the government of Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. Further, potential future revenue may be derived from abroad, particularly from the United States. As a result, our business may be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the Danish Kroner, the U.S. dollar, British Pounds, the Euro or other currencies, which may also have a significant impact on our reported results of operations and cash flows from period to period. Currently, we do not have any exchange rate hedging arrangements in place and do not currently have plans to implement any hedging arrangements. In addition, the possible abandonment of the Euro by one or more members of the EU could materially affect our business in the future. Despite measures taken by the EU to provide funding to certain EU member states in financial difficulties and by a number of European countries to stabilize their economies and reduce their debt burdens, it is possible that the Euro could be abandoned in the future as a currency by countries that have adopted its use. This could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more EU member states, or in more extreme circumstances, the dissolution of the EU. The effects on our business of a potential dissolution of the EU, the exit of one or more EU member states from the EU or the abandonment of the Euro as a currency, are impossible to predict with certainty, and any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Related party transactions may be challenged by tax authorities. The jurisdictions in which we conduct or will conduct business, and in particular Denmark, Germany and the United States, have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles. Contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The taxation authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge our arm's length related party transfer pricing policies. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. Although we believe that our related-party transactions satisfy the substantive requirements of these transfer pricing rules, if any of these taxation authorities are successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. Any increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant negative impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If we fail to enter into strategic relationships or collaborations our business, financial condition, commercialization prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our product development programs and the potential commercialization of FP187 or any other product candidates we develop will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Therefore, in addition to financing the developments of FP187 or any other product candidates we develop through additional equity financings or through debt financings, we may decide to enter into collaborations with pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical companies for the development and potential commercialization of such products or product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may also be restricted under existing and future collaboration agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with other potential collaborators. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring FP187 to market and generate product revenue. If we do enter into a new collaboration agreement, we could be subject to the following risks, each of which may materially harm our business, commercialization prospects and financial condition: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that the collaboration partner devotes to the product development program; • the collaboration partner may experience financial difficulties and thus not commit sufficient financial resources to the product development program; • we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing, distribution and intellectual property rights; • a collaboration partner could move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with third parties, including our competitors; or • business combinations or significant changes in a collaboration partner's business strategy may adversely affect our willingness to complete our obligations under any arrangement. 33 Table of Contents We currently rely on third-party suppliers and other third parties for production of FP187 and other materials and our dependence on these third parties may impair the advancement of our research and development programs and the development of FP187. We currently rely on and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of raw materials and manufacture of drug supplies necessary. We have a single relationship with a manufacturer (a so-called contract manufacturing organization, or CMO) to purchase excipients (i.e., inactive substances formulated alongside DMF), and to develop and manufacture our DMF, which we do through periodic work orders instead of a formal contractual relationship. We also have a single relationship with another CMO for the formulation, development, manufacture, analysis, packaging and supply of our DMF tablets, which we also maintain through periodic work orders instead of a formal contractual relationship. We anticipate soon expanding beyond relying on just these two third parties. Our current reliance on just one CMO for each of the purchase of excipients, manufacturing of DMF and our delivery formulation may expose us to more risk than if we were to manufacture FP187 or other products ourselves, or if we were now to have relationships with multiple or back-up third parties. Delays in production by either of these third parties could delay our clinical trials or have an adverse impact on any commercial activities. In addition, the fact that we are dependent on these two third parties for the manufacture of DMF and formulation of FP187, respectively, means that we are subject to the risk that the products may have manufacturing defects that we have limited ability to prevent or control. Although we oversee these activities to ensure compliance with our quality standards, budgets and timelines, we have had and will continue to have less control over the manufacturing of DMF than potentially would be the case if we were to manufacture FP187 ourselves, or have alternative CMOs to turn to in instances where batches of our FP187 did not meet required standards. Further, the CMOs we deal with could have staffing difficulties, might undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, which would adversely affect the manufacturing of DMF and the production of our FP187 tablets. In addition, they could be acquired by, or enter into an exclusive arrangement with, one of our competitors, which would adversely affect our ability to access DMF in the form we require. We are obliged to work with CMOs and third-party suppliers that comply with EMA, FDA or other regulatory authorities' laws and regulations, including cGMPs, on an ongoing basis. Although we are ultimately responsible for ensuring compliance with these regulatory requirements, we do not have day-to-day control over a CMO or other third-party manufacturer's compliance with these laws, regulations and applicable cGMPs and other laws and regulations, such as those related to environmental health and safety matters. Any failure to achieve and maintain compliance with these laws, regulations and standards could subject us to the risk that we may have to suspend the manufacturing of FP187 or that obtained approvals could be revoked, which would adversely affect our business and reputation. In addition, third-party providers, such as our CMOs, may elect not to continue to work with us due to factors beyond our control. They may also refuse to work with us because of their own financial difficulties, business priorities or other reasons, at a time that is costly or otherwise inconvenient for us. If we were unable to find adequate replacement or another acceptable solution in time, our clinical trials could be delayed or our commercial activities could be harmed. The manufacture of DMF requires highly specialized safety procedures and equipment and is therefore carried out by a limited number of CMOs. Our Phase 3 trial for FP187 and commercialization of FP187, when and if initiated, will greatly increase our requirements for DMF. While we are currently searching for (and believe we have identified) alternative and/or supplementary sources of production, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate such alternatives or that we will be able to agree on the commercial terms of any supply with such CMOs, which could impact negatively on our programs. The inability of our single third-party source of DMF to meet our requirements for DMF would have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. 34 Table of Contents In addition to the supply of DMF, we also will rely on CMOs and third party suppliers to provide us with sufficient quantities of the comparator drug to be used in our Phase 3 trial for FP187. While we are currently searching for (and believe we have identified) primary and alternative sources of supply of the comparator drug, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of the comparator drug for our Phase 3 clinical trial when needed or on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to do so would have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. Problems with the quality of the work of third parties, such as CMOs, may lead us to seek to terminate our working relationships and use alternative service providers. However, making this change may be costly and may delay the trials. In addition, it may be very challenging, and in some cases impossible, to find replacement service providers that can develop and manufacture the necessary raw materials (including DMF), tablets or products in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost and on a timely basis. The sale of products containing any defects or any delays in the supply of necessary services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in the costs and expenses of components or raw materials may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Supply sources could be interrupted from time to time and, if interrupted, supplies may not be resumed (whether in part or in whole) within a reasonable timeframe and at an acceptable cost or at all. If we fail to retain accounting and financial staff with appropriate experience, our ability to maintain the financial controls required of a public company may adversely affect our business. We currently rely on third-party accounting professionals to assist us with our financial accounting and compliance obligations. If we are unable to retain financial professionals with appropriate experience to maintain our financial control and reporting obligations as a public company, our business may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs Holders of our ADSs have different rights than holders of our ordinary shares. We have issued to our security holders ADSs and ordinary shares, each of which afford their holders different rights. Currently, only our ADSs are publicly traded (on NASDAQ). An ADS holder will not be treated as one of our shareholders and will not have shareholder rights. Danish law governs shareholder rights. Our depositary, Bank of New York Mellon, is the holder of the ordinary shares underlying outstanding ADSs. Holders of ADSs only have ADS holder rights. The deposit agreement among us, the depositary and ADS holders sets out ADS holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. The market price of the ADSs may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The price of equity securities of publicly traded emerging biopharmaceutical and drug discovery and development companies has been highly volatile and is likely to remain highly volatile in the future. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by us, strategic partners, or competitors; • delays in entering into strategic relationships with respect to development and/or commercialization of FP187 or entry into strategic relationships on terms that are not deemed to be favorable to us; • technological innovations or commercial product introductions by us or competitors; 35 Table of Contents • changes in government regulations; • public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of FP187; • financing or other corporate transactions; • publication of research reports or comments by securities or industry analysts; • general market conditions in the pharmaceutical industry or in the economy as a whole; or • other events and factors beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of companies' equity securities, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. Our principal shareholders currently own, in the aggregate, approximately 85% of our ordinary shares. They are therefore able to exert significant control over matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. Our shareholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding shares (including outstanding shares beneficially owned by our ADS holders) beneficially own approximately 85% of our ordinary shares. These shareholders are able to significantly influence or even unilaterally approve matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, certain decisions relating to our capital structure, amendments to our Articles of Association, and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders or holders of the ADSs. Our ordinary shares are controlled by insiders, who could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and shareholder approval. Our Chairman, Florian Schönharting, beneficially owns shares comprising approximately 56% of our voting power. With such concentrated control, Mr. Schönharting has influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and shareholder approval, including the election of directors or any other significant corporate transaction. As a result, other shareholders and holders of the ADSs may have no effective voice in the management of our company. Certain of our principal shareholders as well as NB FP Investment II K/S have entered into a shareholders' agreement under which they have agreed to take certain actions that may be adverse to the interests of other shareholders and holders of ADSs. Certain of our principal shareholders as well as NB FP Investment II K/S have entered into a shareholders' agreement, under which they have agreed to take certain actions, including with respect to the ability of certain principal shareholders to nominate directors to the board of directors and the obligation to increase share capital in certain circumstances. The shareholders party to the shareholders' agreement control a majority of the beneficial voting power of our ordinary shares, and the actions taken under or pursuant to the shareholders' agreement may conflict with the interests of other shareholders and holders of ADSs. ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement and not as a direct shareholder in the Company. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our ordinary shares, the depositary will fix a record date for the determination of ADS holders who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights. Upon timely receipt of notice from 36 Table of Contents us, if we so request, the depositary shall distribute to the holders as of the record date (1) the notice of the meeting or solicitation of consent or proxy sent by us and (2) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders may instruct the depositary of their ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs. Otherwise, ADS holders will not be able to exercise their right to vote, unless they withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs. However, ADS holders may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for ADS holders' instructions, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify ADS holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to ADS holders. We cannot guarantee ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs held by them or to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs so that the ADS holder can vote them. If the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions from the ADS holder, it may give a proxy to a person designated by us to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that ADS holders may not be able to exercise any right to vote, and there may be nothing ADS holders can do if the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. ADS holders' rights to participate in any future preferential subscription rights or to elect to receive dividends in shares may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings. According to Danish law, if we issue additional securities for cash, current shareholders will have preferential subscription rights for these securities on a pro rata basis unless (i) they waive those rights at a meeting of our shareholders (if issued at market value, by at least two-thirds of the votes cast and the share capital represented at such meeting), (ii) such rights are waived individually by each shareholder, or (iii) the additional securities are issued pursuant to an authorization granted to our board of directors including a waiver of preemptive rights. However, our ADS holders in the United States will not be entitled to exercise or sell such rights related to the ordinary shares, which they represent unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary will not make rights available to our ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act. Further, if we offer holders of our ordinary shares the option to receive dividends in either cash or shares, under the deposit agreement the depositary may require satisfactory assurances from us that extending the offer to holders of ADSs does not require registration of any securities under the Securities Act before making the option available to holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings or to elect to receive dividends in shares and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. ADS holders may be subject to limitations on the transfer of their ADSs and the withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares. ADSs, which may be evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may 37 Table of Contents refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason subject to each ADS holder's right to cancel such holder's ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares. Temporary delays in the cancellation of ADSs and withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares may arise because the depositary has closed its transfer books or we have closed our transfer books, the transfer of ordinary shares is blocked to permit voting at a shareholders' meeting or we are paying a dividend on our ordinary shares. In addition, ADS holders may not be able to cancel their ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares when they owe money for fees, taxes and similar charges and when it is necessary to prohibit withdrawals in order to comply with any laws or governmental regulations that apply to ADSs or to the withdrawal of ordinary shares or other deposited securities. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial number of our ordinary shares or ADSs could adversely affect the price of the ADSs, and actual sales of our equity will dilute shareholders and ADS holders. Future sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales will occur, could cause a decline in the market price of the ADSs. A significant portion of our ordinary shares are subject to lock-up agreements. If, after the end of such lock-up agreements, these shareholders sell substantial amounts of shares or ADSs in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of the ADSs and our ability to raise capital through an issue of equity securities in the future could be adversely affected. We have entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we have agreed under certain circumstances to file a registration statement to register the resale of the shares held by certain of our existing shareholders, as well as to cooperate in certain public offerings of such shares. In addition, we intend to register all ordinary shares that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. Once we register these ordinary shares, they can be freely sold in the public market or otherwise upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates and lock-up agreements We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends since our incorporation. Even if future operations lead to significant levels of distributable profits, we currently intend that any earnings will be reinvested in our business and that dividends will not be paid until we have an established revenue stream to support continuing dividends. Payment of future dividends will effectively be at the discretion of our board of directors, after taking into account various factors including our business prospects, cash requirements, financial performance and new product development. In addition, payment of future dividends may be made only if our shareholders' equity exceeds the sum of our paid-in and called-up share capital plus the reserves required to be maintained by Danish law or by our Articles of Association. Accordingly, investors cannot rely on dividend income and any returns on an investment in the ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation in the price of the ADSs. We are an "emerging growth company," and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to "emerging growth companies" will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an "emerging growth company," we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies," including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously 38 Table of Contents approved. As an "emerging growth company" we are required to report only three years of selected financial data compared to five years for comparable data reported by other public companies. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an "emerging growth company." We could be an "emerging growth company" for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our equity securities held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 date (the end of our second fiscal quarter) before that time, in which case we would no longer be an "emerging growth company" as of the following December 31 (our fiscal year end). We cannot predict if investors will find the ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find the ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the ADSs and the price of the ADSs may be more volatile. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we will not be subject to U.S. proxy rules and will be subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. domestic public company. We will report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we currently furnish and intend to continue furnishing quarterly financial information to the SEC, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation Fair Disclosure, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. As a result of the above, our shareholders and ADS holders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. The determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. Accordingly, we will next make a determination with respect to our foreign private issuer status on June 30, 2015. There is a risk that we will lose our foreign private issuer status in the future. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if, for example, more than 50% of our assets are located in the United States and we continue to fail to meet additional requirements necessary to maintain our foreign private issuer status. As of December 31, 2014, an immaterial amount of our assets were located in the United States, although this may change if we expand our operations in the United States. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly greater than the costs we incur as a foreign private issuer. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive in certain respects than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would be required under current SEC rules to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and modify certain of our policies to comply with corporate governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and 39 Table of Contents modifications would involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers, which could also increase our costs. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of the ADSs. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, is designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of the ADSs. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control over financial reporting and procedures and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an "emerging growth company" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an "emerging growth company" for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. In 2013, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to inadequate financial statement preparation and review procedures was identified by our independent registered public accounting firm. Although no material weakness was identified in 2014, there can be no assurance that a material weakness will not occur again in the future, which could impair our ability to comply with the accounting and reporting requirements within the International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, as issued by the IASB. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness related to our financial statement closing process, primarily related to the lack of sufficient skilled personnel with IFRS and SEC reporting knowledge for the purposes of timely and reliable financial reporting. Specifically, our independent registered public accounting firm determined that we lacked sufficient accounting and finance resources and did not design and operate procedures and controls over the preparation of our financial statements. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. During 2014, we hired additional personnel including our Chief Financial Officer as well as other individuals with accounting and financial reporting experience to remediate the underlying causes of the material weakness previously identified by our independent registered public accounting firm. 40 Table of Contents Specifically we put in place procedures and controls to oversee the preparation and review of our financial statements to ensure compliance with IFRS, ensured that supporting account reconciliations are prepared timely and complex accounting issues are accounted for and disclosed in our financial statements correctly. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, our independent registered public accountants did not identify a material weakness, however we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not arise in the future. If we cannot maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements by providing timely and accurate financial statements, be required to restate our prior period financial statements, or we may be unable to comply with applicable stock exchange listing requirements, any of which could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Failure to comply with the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively affect our business including the price of our ADSs. For the year ended December 31, 2014 we were not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act because we are a newly public company and have not previously filed an annual report with the SEC. However, commencing with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, and thereafter, we will be required to conduct the management assessment required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act we will be required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC rules and regulations. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may be inadequate and weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. During the evaluation and testing process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting it will result in our inability to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we cannot maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements by providing timely and accurate financial statements, be required to restate our prior period financial statements, or we may be unable to comply with applicable stock exchange listing requirements, any of which could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, the price of the ADSs and our trading volume could decline. The trading market for the ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. In the event securities or industry analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for the ADSs could decrease, which might cause the price of our ordinary shares and trading volume to decline. 41 Table of Contents We believe that we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, in 2014 and may be classified as a PFIC in future years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year, this could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Code, we will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which, after the application of certain "look-through" rules with respect to subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income consists of "passive income," or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, "passive income." Passive income generally includes interest, dividends, rents, certain non-active royalties and capital gains. We believe that we were a PFIC for the tax year ended December 31, 2014 and may be classified as a PFIC in future years. Whether we will be a PFIC in any year depends on the composition of our income and assets, and the relative fair market value of our assets from time to time, which we expect may vary substantially over time. Because (i) we currently own a substantial amount of passive assets, including cash, and (ii) the value of our assets, including our intangible assets, that generate non-passive income for PFIC purposes, is uncertain and may vary substantially over time, it is uncertain whether we will be or will not be a PFIC in future years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder, as defined below, holds ADSs, a U.S. Holder may be subject to adverse tax consequences, including (i) if a mark-to-market election or a qualified electing fund, or QEF, election has not been made with respect to its ADSs, a U.S. Holder may incur significant additional U.S. federal income taxes on income resulting from distributions on, or any gain from the disposition of, such ADSs, as such income generally would be allocated over the U.S. Holder's holding period for its ADSs and would be subject to tax at the highest rates of U.S. federal income taxation in effect for such years, with an interest charge then imposed on the resulting taxes in respect of such income, and (ii) dividends paid by us would not be eligible for preferential individual rates of U.S. federal income tax. In addition, U.S. Holders that own an interest in a PFIC are required to comply with certain reporting requirements. A U.S. Holder may in certain circumstances mitigate adverse tax consequences of the PFIC rules by filing an election to treat the PFIC as QEF, or, if shares of the PFIC are "marketable stock" for purposes of the PFIC rules, by making a mark-to-market election with respect to the shares of the PFIC. However, we do not intend to comply with the reporting requirements necessary to permit U.S. Holders to elect to treat us as a QEF. Furthermore, if a U.S. Holder were to make a mark-to-market election with respect to its ADSs, the U.S. Holder would be required to include annually in its U.S. federal taxable income an amount reflecting any year end increase in the value of its ADSs. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see "Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders." Risks Related to Danish Law and Our Operations in Denmark Preemptive rights may not be available to non-Danish shareholders, and any inability of non-Danish shareholders to exercise preemptive rights in respect of shares issued in any offering by us will cause their proportionate interests to be diluted. Under Danish law, existing shareholders will have preemptive rights to participate on the basis of their existing share ownership in the issuance of any new shares for cash consideration, unless those rights are waived by a resolution of the shareholders or the shares are issued pursuant to an authorization granted to the board of directors including a waiver of preemptive rights. The preemptive rights of the shareholders may be waived by a majority comprising at least two-thirds of the votes cast and of the share capital represented at the general meeting provided the capital increase is made at market price. Certain non-Danish shareholders may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for their shares due to restrictions included in securities laws of certain countries, including those applicable in the United States. To the extent that shareholders are not able to exercise their preemptive rights in respect of the shares in any offering by us, such shareholders' proportional interests will be diluted. 42 Table of Contents We are a Danish company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Danish company with limited liability. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in Denmark. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders and boards of directors in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board is required by Danish law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. We are, as a foreign private issuer, not obligated to and do not comply with all the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. This may affect the rights of our shareholders. We are a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. federal securities laws. As a result, in accordance with the listing requirements of NASDAQ, we rely on home country governance requirements and certain exemptions thereunder rather than relying on the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. In accordance with Danish law and generally accepted business practices, our Articles of Association do not provide quorum requirements generally applicable to general meetings of shareholders. To this extent, our practice varies from the requirement of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5620(c), which requires an issuer to provide in its bylaws for a generally applicable quorum, and that such quorum may not be less than one-third of the outstanding voting shares. Although we must provide shareholders with an agenda and other relevant documents in advance of a general meeting of shareholders, Danish law does not have an applicable regulatory regime for the solicitation of proxies, and thus our practice will vary from the requirement of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5620(b). Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to these NASDAQ requirements. As a Danish company we must comply with the Danish Companies Act, or DCA. The DCA contains binding provisions for the board of directors, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders; and financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. Certain provisions apply to our board of directors (e.g., in relation to role, composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (e.g., regarding our obligations to provide information to our shareholders). Further, certain sections of the DCA only apply to Danish companies listed on a regulated market with the EEA, and accordingly do not apply to us. This may affect the rights of our shareholders. We have historically filed our Danish tax returns on a standalone basis; however, due to certain changes to the ownership structure of the Company made at the start of 2013, as of January 2013, we must file our Danish tax returns as part of a Danish tax group controlled by Tech Growth Invest ApS, a Danish corporation ("Tech Growth"). Since January 19, 2013, we have been part of the tax group of Tech Growth for purposes of Danish law (see footnote 1 to the table set forth in the Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—E. Share Ownership). Danish law provides for joint income taxation for all Danish entities in the same tax group, with the result that losses by one entity would be offset by gains by another. However, Danish law requires entities in the same tax group to pay each other for the use of each other's tax losses. Therefore, any use of Forward Pharma's losses by other members of the Tech Growth tax group will result in compensation to Forward Pharma. All members of a Danish tax group are jointly and severally liable for the group's Danish tax liabilities. However, Danish law requires taxing authorities to look primarily to Tech Growth and its 43 Table of Contents wholly owned entities to satisfy Danish tax liabilities and to look to partially owned entities (such as Forward Pharma) only on a secondary basis. While we do not believe Tech Growth to have any material Danish tax liabilities, there can be no assurance that they do not have any such material liabilities, that they will not incur such material liabilities in the future, or that they will fulfill any such obligations. If Tech Growth has material Danish tax liabilities that are not satisfied by Tech Growth and its wholly owned subsidiaries or if Tech Growth incurs any such liabilities in the future, we may be responsible for the payment of such taxes, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. U.S. federal and/or state income tax may apply to us in the future. We are not currently subject to U.S. federal or state income tax. Our Chief Financial Officer Joel Sendek is employed by both Forward Pharma A/S and our wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, Forward Pharma USA, LLC, and our Vice President, Finance and Controller Thomas Carbone is employed by Forward Pharma USA, LLC. Pursuant to the U.S. tax laws and the income tax treaty between Denmark and the United States, we will not be subject to U.S. tax in connection with any of such employees' activities unless there is a U.S. trade or business being conducted in connection with a permanent establishment. While we believe that the functions such employees fulfill do not give rise to U.S. tax liability for us, there can be no assurances that the U.S. tax authorities will agree with such position. In addition, if the functions of such employees are expanded in the future, and/or we engage additional personnel located in the United States whose functions are sufficiently broad, we may become subject to U.S. federal and/or state income tax, which might have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. Claims of U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. Forward Pharma A/S is incorporated under the laws of Denmark, and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries Forward Pharma GmbH, is incorporated under the laws of Germany. Substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. On a combined basis, the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them or us in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. The United States does not have a treaty with Denmark or Germany providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. Accordingly, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a United States court based on civil liability will not be directly enforceable in Denmark or Germany. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new lawsuit in a competent court in Denmark, that party may submit to the Danish court the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States. A judgment by a federal or state court in the United States will neither be recognized nor enforced by a Danish court but such judgment may serve as evidence in a similar action in such court. In addition, the final judgment of a United States court may be recognized and enforced in Germany in compliance with certain requirements including petitioning a German court to enforce such judgment. 