Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors described elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. It is not possible, however, to predict or identify all such factors. Accordingly, investors should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Changes in supply-demand balance at our plants and the industries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. Our key customers in mature carbon black markets such as North America and Western Europe continue to shift their manufacturing capacity from those regions to developing regions such as Asia, South America and Eastern Europe. Although we are responding to meet these market demand conditions, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in expanding capacity in developing regions (which depends in part on economic and political conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances) or in reducing capacity in mature regions commensurate with industry demand. Similarly, demand for our customers’ products and our competitors’ reactions to market conditions could affect our results. In addition, our rubber blacks, performance products and fumed metal oxides product lines are sensitive to changes in industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to decrease when capacity utilization in these product lines decreases, which could affect our financial performance. We depend on a group of key customers for a significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s performance or financial position could harm our business and financial condition. Our success in strengthening relationships and growing business with our largest customers and retaining their business over extended time periods could affect our future results. Three major tire customers, one silicones customer, four capacitor materials customers and one microelectronics customer represent a material portion of our total net sales and operating revenues. In fiscal year 2006, sales to The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company by our rubber blacks product line accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated revenues. The loss of any one or more of our important customers, or a reduction in volumes sold to them because of a work stoppage or other disruption, could materially adversely affect our results of operations until such business is replaced or the disruption ends. Any deterioration of the 13 financial condition of any of our customers that impairs their ability to make payments to us also could affect our future results and financial condition. In addition, a material portion of our sales are made to customers under long-term and annual contracts. The loss or expiration of any of these customer contracts could increase the volatility of our business results. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The cost, availability and quality of raw materials affect our results. Dramatic increases in such costs or decreases in the availability of raw materials at acceptable costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, if proposed environmental regulations applicable to the European carbon black industry that call for a reduction in the annual average sulfur content in carbon black feedstock are adopted, we may experience some difficulty obtaining low sulfur feedstock at an acceptable cost for our European operations. Moreover, although our long-term and some of our annual carbon black supply contracts provide for a price adjustment to account for changes in feedstock costs, there is a lag between the time when feedstock costs are incurred by us and the time when prices are adjusted under the contracts. Accordingly, we may not be able to pass increased costs along to our customers during the quarter in which they occur, which can have a significant negative impact in a given quarter. For non-contract sales, we may not be able to increase prices at all or in an amount sufficient to compensate for higher feedstock costs. In addition, it is possible that a supply contract with a price adjustment mechanism could expire by its terms before we are able to recapture fully our raw material cost increases. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, we used 15 functional currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar and derived a substantial amount of our revenues in 2006 from sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in interest rates. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments as well as foreign currency debt. We cannot be certain, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. We are exposed to political or country risk inherent in doing business in some countries. These risks may include nationalization and expropriation of assets or other actions of governments, importing and exporting issues, contract loss and asset abandonment. Plant capacity expansions may be delayed and not achieve the expected benefits. Our ability to complete capacity expansions as planned may be delayed or interrupted by the need to obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, availability of labor and materials, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. Moreover, capacity expansion in our rubber blacks, performance products, fumed metal oxides and inkjet 14 colorants product lines could have a negative impact on the product line’s business performance until capacity utilization is sufficient to absorb the incremental costs associated with the expansion. Our efforts to maintain or increase our margins may not be successful. We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve operating efficiencies and generate cost savings. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be realized. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, we try to maintain or improve margins on our non-contracted sales through price increases. However, such increases may not be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased raw material and energy costs, or may decrease demand for our products and our volume of sales. We spend a significant amount of money developing new businesses. Our strategic focus includes optimizing our core businesses and investing the cash and intellectual resources they generate in developing new businesses. We cannot be certain that the costs we incur investing in these new businesses will result in a proportional increase in revenues or profits. In addition, the timely commercialization of products that we are developing may be disrupted or delayed by manufacturing or other technical difficulties, market acceptance or insufficient market size to support a new product, competitors’ new products, and difficulties in moving from the experimental stage to the production stage. These delays could affect our future results. Any failure to realize benefits from joint ventures, acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect future financial results. As part of our strategies for growth and improved profitability, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments and enter into joint ventures. The success of acquisitions of new technologies, companies and products, or arrangements with third parties is not predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our objectives as anticipated. We may be required to impair or write-off certain assets if our assumptions about future sales and profitability prove incorrect. In our analysis of the recoverability of certain assets, namely inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and deferred tax assets, we have made assumptions about future sales (pricing, volume and region of sale), costs, cash generation and the ultimate profitability of the business and/or tax jurisdiction. These assumptions were based on management’s best estimates and if the actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, we may not be able to realize the value of the assets recorded as of September 30, 2006, which could lead to an impairment or write-off of certain of these assets in the future. Our operations involve the handling of hazardous materials, and we are subject to extensive safety, health and environmental requirements, which could increase our costs and/or reduce our revenues. Our ongoing operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to safety, health and environmental matters (“SH&E Requirements”), many of which provide for substantial monetary fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, the operation of a chemical manufacturing business as well as the sale and distribution of chemical products involve safety, health and environmental risks. For example, the production and/or processing of carbon black, fumed metal oxides, tantalum, niobium, aerogels and other chemicals involve the handling, 15 transportation, manufacture or use of certain substances or components that may be considered toxic or hazardous within the meaning of applicable SH&E Requirements. The transportation of chemical products and other activities associated with the manufacturing process have the potential to cause environmental or other damage as well as injury or death to employees or third parties. We could incur significant expenditures in connection with such operational risks. We believe that our ongoing operations comply with current SH&E Requirements in a manner that should not materially affect our earnings or cash flow in an adverse manner. We can not be certain, however, that significant costs or liabilities will not be incurred with respect to SH&E Requirements and our operations. Moreover, we are not able to predict whether future changes or developments in SH&E Requirements will affect our earnings or cash flow in a materially adverse manner. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. As more fully described in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings,” we are a party to or the subject of lawsuits, claims, and proceedings, including those involving contract, environmental, antitrust, and health and safety matters as well as product liability and personal injury claims relating to asbestosis, silicosis and berylliosis, and exposure to various chemicals. Adverse rulings, judgments or settlements in pending or future litigation (including carbon black antitrust claims and liabilities associated with respirator claims) could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statements. The continued protection of our patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We own various patents and other intellectual property rights in the United States and other countries covering many of our products, as well as processes and product uses. In addition, we are a licensee of various patents and intellectual property rights belonging to others in the United States and other countries. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the United States, the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country. Irrespective of our proprietary intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if they are without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend and if we were to lose such claims, we could be subject to injunctions and/or damages, or be required to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. Licensing agreements may not be available to Cabot, and if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the estimated realization of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely affect net income for future periods. 16 Natural disasters could affect our operations and financial results. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural hazards, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. Such events could disrupt our supply of raw materials or otherwise affect production, transportation and delivery of our products or affect demand for our products. Our business is subject to other general business risks. In addition to the factors described above, the following other factors, among others, could affect our future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements: changes in the rate of economic growth in the United States and other international economies; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies throughout the world; stock market conditions; acts of war and terrorist activities; and the impact of global health, safety and environmental concerns on economic conditions and market opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 