Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to factors described elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. Negative or uncertain worldwide or regional economic conditions may adversely impact our business. Our operations and performance are affected by worldwide and regional economic conditions. Continued uncertainty or a deterioration in the economic conditions affecting the businesses to which, or geographic areas in which, we sell products could reduce demand for our products, and we may experience pricing pressure on products and services, which could decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. In addition, during periods of economic uncertainty, our customers may temporarily pursue inventory reduction measures that exceed declines in the actual underlying demand. Our businesses are sensitive to industry capacity utilization, particularly Reinforcement Materials. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur, which could affect our financial performance. As a chemical manufacturing company, our operations have the potential to cause environmental or other damage as well as personal injury. The operation of a chemical manufacturing business as well as the sale and distribution of chemical products involve safety, health and environmental risks. For example, the production and/or processing of carbon black, fumed metal oxides, aerogel, activated carbon and other chemicals involve the handling, transportation, manufacture or use of certain substances or components that may be considered toxic or hazardous. Our manufacturing processes and the transportation of chemical products entail risks such as leaks, fires, explosions, toxic releases, mechanical failures or unscheduled downtime. If operational risks materialize, they could result in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment, or damage to property. In addition, the occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities due to any of these hazards may result in loss of production, which, in turn, may make it difficult for us to meet customer needs. Accordingly, these hazards and their consequences could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties, and could harm our reputation. The strategic growth plan of the mercury removal products portion of our Purification Solutions business relies significantly on the enforcement of environmental laws and regulations. The strategic growth plan for the mercury removal products and systems portion of our Purification Solutions business relies significantly upon the enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, particularly those that would require industrial facilities to reduce the quantity of air pollutants they release. In particular, we expect demand for our activated carbon products and systems to increase as coal fired utilities in the U.S. enhance their emission control systems in order to comply with the U.S. Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS), which sets forth federal mercury emission levels that will take effect in April 2015. However, because of the uncertainty associated with implementation of regulations and the potential for delays and challenges, we are unable to predict with certainty when and how MATS and other new standards will affect demand for our activated carbon products and systems. 15 Table of Contents Our mining operations have the potential to cause safety issues, including those that could result in significant personal injury, and a disruption in our cesium mining operations could disrupt our supply of raw materials for our Specialty Fluids business. We have underground cesium mining operations in Manitoba, Canada, and are developing an above-ground lignite mine close to our Marshall, Texas facility, which we expect will begin operations in fiscal 2015. Mining operations by their nature are activities that involve a high level of uncertainty and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control. These operational risks include, but are not limited to, industrial accidents; unexpected geological conditions; fall of ground accidents or structural collapses; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rate. The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, damage to mineral properties, production facilities or mining equipment, damage to the environment, delays in or reduced production, and potential legal liabilities. The principal raw material used by our Specialty Fluids business is pollucite (cesium ore), the vast majority of which we obtain from our mine in Manitoba, a portion of which is located under Bernic Lake. In March 2013, a fall of ground occurred in an area of the mine where there had previously been a fall of ground in 2010. Following the March 2013 fall of ground, we implemented additional safety measures and several types of monitoring devices in the mine, based on the advice of our third-party mining consultants. Since their implementation in July 2013, the monitoring devices have indicated good structural stability in the mine, and we have resumed normal mining activities with respect to the areas not affected by the fall of ground. The structural stability may be subject to change at any time, including the potential for further deterioration and flooding, even in the near term. We are assessing development alternatives that, if pursued, we believe will enable us to continue to access our pollucite reserves and expand our existing mining operations. At this stage, it is not possible to be certain of the technical feasibility or the potential cost of such project. In addition, if we proceed with this project, we expect it will take two or more years to complete, and there remains a risk of further deterioration of the mine over this period of time. Further, this project could experience unexpected cost increases or problems or delays, including delays in obtaining environmental or other government approvals. As we assess these alternatives, our existing mining operations in certain portions of the mine continue, and we are increasing our cesium ore inventory in an effort to ensure that we have sufficient raw material inventory to meet our customer needs for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to continue mining or unwilling to incur the costs associated with further developing the mine, we may be unable to obtain additional raw material for our Specialty Fluids business at an acceptable cost or at all. Our operations are subject to extensive safety, health and environmental requirements, which could increase our costs and/or reduce our profit. Our ongoing operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to safety, health and environmental matters, many of which provide for substantial monetary fines and criminal sanctions for violations. These requirements include requirements to obtain and comply with various environmental-related permits for constructing any new facilities and operating all of our existing facilities. The enactment of new environmental laws and regulations and/or the more aggressive interpretation of existing requirements could require us to incur significant costs for compliance or capital improvements or limit our current or planned operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow. See “Item 3 Legal Proceedings—Environmental Proceedings”. Any failure to realize benefits from acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures could adversely affect future financial results. Attainment of our strategic plan objectives requires, in part, strategic acquisitions or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our businesses globally or add product technology that accelerates our specialization strategy, or both. The success of acquisitions of businesses, new technologies and products, 16 Table of Contents or arrangements with third parties is not always predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our objectives as anticipated. We may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business results. Plant capacity expansions and site development projects may be delayed and/or not achieve the expected benefits. Our ability to complete capacity expansions and other site development projects as planned may be delayed or interrupted by the need to obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, unexpected cost increases, availability of labor and materials, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. Moreover, the cost of these activities could have a negative impact on the financial performance of the relevant business, and in the case of capacity expansion projects, until capacity utilization at the particular facility is sufficient to absorb the incremental costs associated with the expansion. In addition, our ability to expand capacity in emerging regions depends in part on economic and political conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to establish operations, construct additional manufacturing capacity or form strategic business alliances. An interruption in our operations as a result of fence-line arrangements could disrupt our manufacturing operations and adversely affect our financial results. At certain of our facilities we have fence-line arrangements with adjacent third party manufacturing operations (“fence-line partners”), who provide raw materials for our manufacturing operations and/or take by-products generated from our operations. Accordingly, any unplanned disruptions or curtailments in a fence-line partner’s production facilities that impacts their ability to supply us with raw materials or to take our manufacturing by-products could disrupt our manufacturing operations or cause us to incur increased operating costs to mitigate such disruption. Volatility in the price of energy and raw materials could decrease our margins. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond our control. Dramatic increases in such costs or decreases in the availability of raw materials at acceptable costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, movements in the market price for crude oil typically affect carbon black feedstock costs. Significant movements in the market price for crude oil tend to create volatility in our carbon black feedstock costs, which can affect our working capital and results of operations. Certain of our carbon black supply contracts contain provisions that adjust prices to account for changes in a relevant feedstock price index. We attempt to offset the effects of increases in raw material costs through selling price increases in our non-contract sales, productivity improvements and cost reduction efforts. Success in offsetting increased raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the segment served. Such increases may not be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased raw material and energy costs or may decrease demand for our products and our volume of sales. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of increased raw material or energy costs, it could have a significant impact on our financial results. We are exposed to political or country risk inherent in doing business in some countries. Sales outside of the U.S. constituted a majority of our revenues in fiscal 2013. Although much of our international business is currently in regions where the political and economic risk levels and established legal systems are similar to those in the United States, we also conduct business in countries that have less stable legal systems and financial markets, and potentially more corrupt business environments than the U.S. Our operations in some countries may be subject to the following risks: changes in the rate of 17 Table of Contents economic growth; unsettled political or economic conditions; possible expropriation or other governmental actions; corruption by government officials and other third parties; social unrest, war, terrorist activities or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; currency fluctuations and devaluation; the effect of global health, safety and environmental matters on economic conditions and market opportunities; and changes in financial policy and availability of credit. We have an equity method investment in Venezuela, a country that has established rigid controls over the ability of foreign companies to repatriate cash. Such exchange controls could potentially impact our ability, in both the short and long term, to recover both the cost of our investment and earnings from that investment. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or the failure of a customer or other third party to perform its obligations under agreements with us could harm our business or cash flows. Our success in strengthening relationships and growing business with our largest customers and retaining their business over extended time periods could affect our future results. We have a group of key customers across our businesses that together represent a significant portion of our total net sales and operating revenues. The loss of any of our important customers, or a reduction in volumes sold to them, including because of a work stoppage or other disruption, could adversely affect our results of operations until such business is replaced or the disruption ends. Any deterioration in the financial condition of any of our customers or the industries they serve that impairs our customers’ ability to make payments to us also could increase our uncollectible receivables and could affect our future results and financial condition. In addition, at times we have significant receivables from a limited number of customers and other parties, which concentration increases our credit risk. We face competition from other specialty chemical companies. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize new and innovative, high value-added products for existing and future customers. Increased competition from existing or newly developed products offered by our competitors or companies whose products offer a similar functionality as our products may negatively affect demand for our products. In addition, actions by our competitors could affect our ability to maintain or raise prices, successfully enter new markets or maintain or grow our market position. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2013, we derived a majority of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Due to the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in interest rates. We manage both these risks through normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative instruments as well as foreign currency debt. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. 18 Table of Contents There are also instances where we have direct current exposures to foreign currency movements because settlement back into a different currency is intended. These situations can have a direct impact on our cash flows. The money we spend developing new businesses and technologies may not result in a proportional increase in our revenues or profits. We cannot be certain that the costs we incur investing in new businesses and technologies will result in a proportional increase in revenues or profits. In addition, the timely commercialization of products that we are developing may be disrupted or delayed by manufacturing or other technical difficulties, market acceptance or insufficient market size to support a new product, competitors’ new products, and difficulties in moving from the experimental stage to the production stage. These disruptions or delays could affect our future business results. Our tax rate is dependent upon a number of factors, a change in any of which could impact our future tax rates and net income. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the enactment of certain tax legislation being considered in the U.S.; other changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in the estimated realization of our net deferred tax assets; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. income and non-U.S. withholding taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another. Any significant change in our jurisdictional earnings mix or in the tax laws in those jurisdictions could impact our future tax rates and net income in those periods. Regulations requiring a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions impact our carbon black and activated carbon operations. Global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions impact the carbon black and activated carbon industries as carbon dioxide is emitted from those manufacturing processes. The European Commission’s Emissions Trading Scheme applies to our carbon black and activated carbon facilities in Europe, and we generally expect to purchase emission credits where necessary to respond to allocation shortfalls. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase emissions credits if our carbon black or activated carbon operations generate more CO2 than our allocations permit or that the cost of such credits will be acceptable to us. There are also regulatory developments in other regions and countries, including the U.S., Canada, China and Brazil, regarding greenhouse gas emission reduction programs. Those programs have not yet been defined and their potential impact on our manufacturing operations or financial results cannot be estimated at this time. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. As more fully described in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”, we are a party to or the subject of lawsuits, claims, and proceedings, including, but not limited to, those involving environmental, and health and safety matters as well as product liability and personal injury claims relating to asbestosis, silicosis, and coal worker’s pneumoconiosis, and exposure to various chemicals. We are also a potentially responsible party in various environmental proceedings and remediation matters wherein substantial amounts are at issue. Adverse rulings, judgments or settlements in pending or future litigation (including liabilities associated with respirator claims) or in connection with environmental remediation activities could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statements. 19 Table of Contents Our restructuring activities and cost saving initiatives may not achieve the results we anticipate. We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve operating efficiencies, optimize our asset base and generate cost savings. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be fully realized or maintained over time. In addition, when we close manufacturing facilities, we may not be successful in migrating our customers from those closed facilities to our other facilities. The reduction or elimination of tariffs placed on U.S. and European imports of Chinese or other foreign activated carbon could have a material adverse effect on Purification Solutions. Purification Solutions faces pressure and competition in its U.S. and European markets from low-priced imports of activated carbon products that are frequently sold at less than fair value in the market. If the amounts of these low-priced imports increase, especially if they are sold at less than fair value, our sales of those products could decline, which could have an adverse effect on the earnings of Purification Solutions. In addition, sales of these low-priced imports may make it more difficult for Purification Solutions to pass through raw material cost increases to its customers. U.S. and European regulatory agencies have enacted antidumping duties to limit these activities. However, the antidumping duties in the U.S. could be reduced or eliminated in the future, and the antidumping duties in the European Union may not be renewed beyond their current term. If these antidumping duties are reduced or eliminated, the volume of low-priced activated carbon imports in the U.S and the European Union could increase and, therefore, reduce demand or pricing for our products. The continued protection of our patents, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success. Our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We own various patents and other intellectual property rights in the U.S. and other countries covering many of our products, as well as processes and product uses. Where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable, we rely on trade secret laws and practices to protect our proprietary technology and processes, such as physical security, limited dissemination and access and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, consultants, business partners, potential licensees and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect and the protective measures we have put in place may not prevent disclosure or unauthorized use of our proprietary information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation or other violations of our proprietary rights. In addition, we are a licensee of various patents and intellectual property rights belonging to others in the U.S. and other countries. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to do in the U.S., the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country. Irrespective of our proprietary intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if they are without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend and if we were to lose such claims, we could be enjoined from selling our products or using our processes and/or be subject to damages, or be required to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. Licensing agreements may not be available to us, or if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. 20 Table of Contents We may be required to impair or write off certain assets if our assumptions about future sales and profitability prove incorrect. In analyzing the value of our inventory, property, plant and equipment, investments, goodwill and intangible assets, we have made assumptions about future sales (pricing and volume), production, costs and cash generation, and market conditions. These assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and if the actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, we may not be able to realize the value of the assets recorded as of September 30, 2013, which could lead to an impairment or write-off of certain of these assets in the future. In particular, our assumptions concerning future growth of the Purification Solutions business, which had $466 million of goodwill at September 30, 2013, are highly dependent on growth in the mercury removal products portion of this business. This growth relies upon the adoption and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, particularly those requiring U.S.-based coal fired utilities to reduce mercury emissions to comply with MATS by April 2015. A delay in the implementation of these regulations or an extension of time for compliance could negatively affect our growth assumptions. We may be subject to information technology systems failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. Information technology systems failures, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating information technology and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures and back-up systems at multiple sites, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could affect our operations and financial results. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural hazards, such as floods, windstorms and earthquakes. Such events could disrupt our supply of raw materials or otherwise affect production, transportation and delivery of our products or affect demand for our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 