D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We face significant competition in the markets in which we operate, and we may fail to successfully compete against current or future competitors. We face competition from other payments system operators as well as banks, telecommunications operators and other companies in each of our product lines and in each of the countries in which we operate. MOLPoints competes primarily with game operators, online retailers of digital content, global micropayment providers and aggregators, and local micropayment providers on the basis of its ability to attract and retain online game players and other consumers, which in turn depends on MOLPoints’ ability to attract content providers and distribution channels. MOLReloads competes primarily with online and offline sellers of mobile airtime and operators of payment terminal networks on the basis of transaction processing speed, convenience, coverage, network size, accessibility, availability, reliability, price and after-sales service. MOLPay competes primarily with retail banks, non-traditional payment services providers (such as retailers), electronic payment system operators as well as other companies that provide various forms of payment services, primarily on the basis of transaction processing speed, convenience, network size, accessibility, reliability and price. MOLWallet is expected to compete with online and mobile payment service providers and other e-wallet providers, primarily on the basis of transaction processing speed, convenience, network size, accessibility, reliability and price. Certain of the financial institutions we use for clearing and settlement services are also our competitors and provide payment processing services to online merchants. In addition, in recent years, many of our competitors have substantially expanded their online payment services capabilities. 8 Table of Contents MMOG.asia, our online games portal, competes with game operators and other providers of leisure activities, primarily on the basis of the quality and features of its online games, its operational infrastructure and expertise, the strength of its product management approach, and the services offered to enhance game players’ experience. There are limited barriers to entry for new companies wishing to enter our industries. In addition, many of our competitors are larger than us and may have greater financial, management or operating resources than us, or have more experience in the geographic markets in which we compete with them. If we are unable to compete effectively in each of our product and geographic markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We depend on certain of our distribution partners. We depend on our relationships with certain physical distribution partners, each of which has distributed our products that accounted for a substantial proportion of our revenues in recent years. For 2012, 2013 and 2014, we derived 37.5%, 23.8% and 22.8%, respectively, of our revenue from the distribution of products at 7-Eleven Malaysia’s convenience stores, which represented 63.6%, 51.4% and 52.5% respectively, of our revenue for Malaysia. For 2012, 2013 and 2014, we derived 81.1% and 78.3% and 69.5% respectively, of our revenue in Thailand from sales through Advance Mpay Co. Ltd., or Advance MPay. We have a long term contract with 7-Eleven Malaysia for the placement of MOLReloads terminals, which expires in 2024. Pursuant to this contract, we are 7-Eleven Malaysia’s exclusive provider of mobile airtime and online game credits. We and 7-Eleven Malaysia are currently ultimately controlled by our major shareholder. We also have a payment service agreement with Advance MPay, pursuant to which Advance MPay distributes MOLPoints and MOLReloads in Thailand in exchange for a volume-based service fee. The agreement expires in December 2014, subject to an automatic one-year extension if not earlier terminated. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon 30 days’ written notice. There can be no assurance that our relationship with 7-Eleven Malaysia would not be adversely affected if our major shareholder was to cease to control us or 7-Eleven Malaysia or if our major shareholder was to cause us not to pursue our full rights under our agreement with 7-Eleven Malaysia. In addition, to the extent the customer base of 7-Eleven Malaysia or Advance MPay and its distribution channels decreases, or if the number of distribution channels in desirable locations in Malaysia or Thailand is reduced, customer traffic could be adversely affected, and our sales volume could suffer. Furthermore, our business could suffer if the business strategy of 7-Eleven Malaysia, Advance MPay or any other distribution partner is modified, particularly if such modification reduces its emphasis on point-of-sale activated cards, bill payment services or any other product or service that relates to our business. While we believe that we have generally enjoyed good commercial relations with 7-Eleven Malaysia, Advance MPay and other important distribution partners, there can be no assurance that such companies will continue to observe the terms of existing agreements, or enter into or renew their contracts with us on terms as favorable as current terms. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with any of our key distribution partners, including 7-Eleven Malaysia and Advance MPay, or if any of the respective businesses of our distribution partners changes or suffers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on global and regional digital content providers and telecommunications service providers. As of December 31, 2014, MOLPoints can be used to purchase game credits and other digital content, including thousands of online games, provided by more than 600 content providers. We have relationships with global game operators such as Wargaming, global games platforms such as Facebook, regional platform operators such as Garena in Southeast Asia and Taiwan, and regional content providers such as Asiasoft, and we continually seek to enter into new relationships to broaden our content offering. We are dependent on the adoption of MOLPoints by new content providers, in particular major social media and gaming platforms, in order to grow our business and attract new customers. If we are unable to continue to add popular content providers to our platform whether due to delays in the deployment of global and regional content or otherwise, or if our existing relationships with content providers deteriorate, the attractiveness of MOLPoints to consumers may suffer. In addition to third party content, games operated by MMOG.asia, our games portal, also accepts MOLPoints. For 2012, 2013 and 2014, we derived 5.0%, 2.8% and 1.4% respectively, of our revenue from Boomz (DDT), a game that is operated by MMOG.asia, and there can be no assurance that the success of Boomz (DDT) will continue, or that our other games will be commercially successful. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the content for which MOLPoints are accepted is hosted on third party gaming platforms. There can be no assurance that such content will not be removed from such platforms for any reason, including due to actions by content providers and merchants which are not within our control. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we are dependent on, and our results of operations may be significantly affected by, our relationships with digital content providers with respect to our MOLPoints business and telecommunications service providers with respect to our MOLReloads business. Furthermore, we enter into purchase or fulfillment arrangements based on the preferences or requirements of our counterparties, which affects our margins, capital outlay and inventory risk. If the telecommunications service providers or digital content providers with which we do business change the terms of their arrangements with us in a manner adverse to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely effected. See Item 3.D. “Key Information – Risk Factors – Our mobile carrier billing business exposes us to certain risks.” You should not consider or rely on statements made by our major shareholder that appeared in a news report in June 2014. In an article in the New Straits Times, a Malaysia-based newspaper, dated June 23, 2014, information regarding us and our initial public offering was published. This article quoted statements that were made by our major shareholder, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Vincent Tan, to a reporter, during an interview relating to matters unrelated to us or our initial public offering, and were published without his consent. These statements were also not made with the knowledge or consent of us or our directors, officers or employees. The article referred to statements by our major shareholder regarding the expected timing of our initial public offering and our projected market capitalization and value of our company. Portions of the article were republished by other news agencies. These statements regarding market capitalization and value by our major shareholder were not based on any methodology, calculations or analysis undertaken by us or, we understand, our major shareholder. We understand these were informal, speculative statements made by our major shareholder that were not expected by him to become public. These statements should not be relied upon for any purpose whatsoever. We are unable to accurately project our market capitalization or the value of our Company because these and will be based on many factors beyond our control. Neither we nor any of our affiliates, have confirmed, endorsed or adopted any of the information reported in the news articles referred to above, and all such information is disclaimed by us and our affiliates. Accordingly, you should not rely on any such statements or information in such news reports. We receive certain support from our major shareholder and companies controlled by our major shareholder and our major shareholder and our Executive Chairman have investments in businesses that may compete with our operations or otherwise result in conflicts of interest. We have received in the past and expect to continue to receive support from our major shareholder and companies controlled by our major shareholder. For example, our major shareholder has granted advances to us on an interest-free basis, in connection with certain of our acquisitions. These amounts are repayable on demand. Our major shareholder and related parties have also provided guarantees for certain bank loans and other arrangements that we have entered into. Furthermore, an entity controlled by our major shareholder provides corporate secretarial services to us free of charge. Our principal executive offices in Kuala Lumpur are rented at prevailing market rates from an entity controlled by our major shareholder. See “Related Party Transactions” for descriptions of certain of these arrangements. The loss of support from our major shareholder or the companies controlled by our major shareholder could have an adverse impact on our business. For example, our major shareholder and related parties may no longer provide us with interest free loans or guarantees for financing, which could increase our costs and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing in the future. We may also need to replace such financing and guarantees provided by our major shareholder and related parties, which may not be available or may be on less favorable terms. Our major shareholder, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Vincent Tan, and entities owned by our major shareholder, and our Executive Chairman, Ganesh Kumar Bangah, have investments in businesses that operate in a wide variety of industries, some of which may compete with our operations or otherwise result in conflicts of interest. For example, Cyberventures Sdn. Bhd., or Cyberventures, which is owned 80% by our major shareholder and 20% by our Executive Chairman, owns 51% of Sea Gamer Mall Sdn. Bhd., or Sea Gamer. Sea Gamer sells online game credits and secondary market items for online games, and we have a reseller arrangement with, and provide collection services for, Sea Gamer. See Item 7.B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions –Related Party Transactions”. There can be no assurance that our major shareholder, and entities owned by him and our Executive Chairman, will not act, or cause us or other entities controlled by him to take action, in a manner that adversely impacts your interests as a holder of ADSs. The foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Material breaches in security of our information technology systems may subject us to liability. The uninterrupted and secure operation of our information technology systems, the safekeeping of confidential customer and consumer information that is stored on such systems and the secure handling of consumer information that is processed on such systems are critical to the successful operations of our business. We collect and maintain databases of sensitive information about online merchants and consumers, including names, email addresses, credit card numbers and bank account numbers. We have observed a global increase in information technology security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime, which pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Our visibility in the online payments industry may attract hackers to carry out attacks on our systems that could compromise the security of our data. The encryption software and the other technologies we use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data security breaches by third parties. We have not experienced any material information technology security breaches in the past. An information breach in our systems and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers stored on third-party servers with respect to MOLPay or other information could have a longer and more significant impact on our business operations than a hardware failure. The loss of confidential information could result in our online merchants and their customers or our users losing confidence in us and thus the loss of their business. The loss of confidential information could also subject us to liability as well as the imposition of fines and damages by credit card merchant acquirers or government bodies or, in cases of material breach, the prohibition from provision of processing transactions for card networks. In addition, any data security breach of our or our content providers’ or third-party processors’ systems could lead to fraudulent activity involving our products and services, reputational damage, private claims or regulatory actions against us and increased compliance costs. Any of the above events could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may experience breakdowns in our information technology systems or software defects, computer viruses and development delays that could damage customer relations and expose us to liability. We depend heavily on the stable operation of our information technology systems including software, processing systems, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as systems provided by third parties. In addition, our business depends on the performance and reliability of our servers and MOLReloads terminals. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation and potential loss of business in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Defects in our software systems and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in one or more of the following: • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts; • loss of credibility with current or potential customers; • harm to our reputation and brands; • exposure to liability claims; and • regulatory action or investigation. In addition, we rely on technologies supplied to us by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. To successfully operate our business, we must be able to protect our systems and software from disruption, including from events that may be beyond our control. Events that could cause disruptions include, but are not limited to, upgrading of our information technology systems, installation difficulties or delays, fire, natural disaster, unauthorized entry, power loss, telecommunications failure, software defects, computer viruses, terrorist acts and war. We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for some aspects of recovery, particularly internationally. To the extent we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the relevant service provider’s unresponsiveness or failure to respond appropriately in the event of breakdowns in our systems. Furthermore, we may not have insurance policies, or our insurance policies may not be adequate, to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 11 Table of Contents The growth of our business is largely dependent on our distribution network. Our ability to successfully grow our business internationally will depend to a significant extent on us successfully developing and maintaining relationships with local distribution partners in the countries in which we operate. Our ability to enter into relationships with global game operators such as Wargaming, and global games platforms such as Facebook, is largely dependent on our ability to provide a distribution network in markets where such content providers have a more limited presence. At the same time, our ability to enter into relationships with regional platform operators, such as Garena, and regional content providers, such as Asiasoft, is largely dependent on the regional and local penetration of our distribution network. If we are unable to maintain and increase the penetration of our distribution network in existing markets, and develop distribution networks in new markets, our products and services may become less attractive to consumers and in turn, to both global and local content providers. We have in the past expanded our distribution network partly through acquisitions and partnerships in new markets. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in expanding our distribution network to new markets, nor that our earnings in such markets will offset the cost of acquisition. In cases where our strategy involves organically growing into a new market by establishing a presence in the market and signing up distribution partners directly, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in expanding our distribution network rapidly or at all. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth prospects, especially with respect to MMOG.asia, will suffer if we are unable to continue to grow our business for mobile platforms. As a result of the increasing use of smartphones, increased adoption of MOLPoints by mobile content providers, including mobile game operators, and MMOG.asia’s operation of mobile games are important component of our strategy. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish successful relationships with mobile content providers, that MOLPoints will appeal to mobile users or that MMOG.asia’s mobile games will be launched successfully and will appeal to mobile users. The uncertainties we face include but are not limited to: • we have relatively limited experience working with certain mobile game operators and other mobile content providers whose cooperation we may need in order to be successful; • mobile games operators may not succeed in introducing chargeable features that are sufficiently attractive to players to use MOLPoints to pay for such features; • competition for use of payment methods on mobile platforms is intense and we may not be able to compete effectively. MMOG.asia’s business has suffered as a result of the rapid and substantial migration of games players from online games to mobile games. MMOG.asia’s active paying users for 2014 were almost 50% lower compared with 2013. While MMOG.asia plans to launch new mobile games there can be no assurance that these games will be launched in the near future or at all and that they will be successful. If we are unable to successfully grow the use of MOLPoints in connection with mobile content, or if MMOG.asia’s mobile games are not successful, our growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. If customer confidence in our businesses or our brands deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers include our user community, in addition to content providers with respect to MOLPoints, telecommunications service providers with respect to MOLReloads and online merchants with respect to MOLPay. Our business is built on customers’ confidence in our business or brands, as well as our ability to provide fast, reliable payment services. The strength of our brands and reputation are of paramount importance to our business. A number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our brands, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on us. These factors include but are not limited to: • any significant interruption to our systems and operations; • any regulatory action or investigation against us; • measures taken to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security, such as freezing consumer funds; • customer complaints about our customer service and our ability to handle customer complaints effectively; • our ability to manage and train our customer service representatives properly; • any breach of our security system or any compromises of consumer data; and • any regulatory action or investigation against us. Furthermore, negative publicity surrounding any assertion that we or any associated merchants are implicated in fraudulent transactions, irrespective of the accuracy of such publicity or its connection with our current operations or business, could harm our reputation. Any event that damages our brands and reputation among consumers as a reliable payment services provider could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents An increase in the use of credit cards, debit cards or bank transfers and a decline in the use of cash, or an increase in the use of digital currencies, as a means of payment in the markets in which we operate, may result in lower growth or a decline in the use of our services. MOLPoints, MOLReloads, and MOLPay connect our user community with content providers, telecommunications service providers and online merchants, respectively, primarily in emerging markets. Many of our users do not readily have access to credit card, debit card or bank transfer services, or may be unwilling to use credit cards for electronic transactions over the internet, and require alternative methods for payment for online products and services. Our physical distribution network, which includes convenience stores, cybercafés, bookstores and other retail stores, provide access to e-commerce for such users by facilitating cash payments. In 2014, cash payments accounted for 76.5% of transactions conducted by our user community on our platform. While we currently accept credit cards and online banking as a means of payment by consumers, we do not accept, and we do not presently have plans to accept, any unregulated digital currency as a means of payment. At this time when digital currencies remain unregulated and at an early stage of adoption, we consider digital currencies to be neither a form of competition nor an area for operational growth or diversity. If digital currencies were to become more widely adopted and regulated we may experience competition from platforms and business that conduct business using such currencies. Further to this, we may consider entering into arrangements with a digital currency operator if the digital currency was regulated, in which case it is possible that we could enter into arrangements for MOLPoints to be used as a funding mechanism for a regulated digital currency, or to accept a regulated digital currency as a means of payment for MOLPoints. While such arrangements could potentially make our broad content offering and extensive distribution network available to a regulated digital currency, we would consider such arrangements only if the currency was regulated and only after evaluating the associated risks, such as the risk of abuse of MOLPoints and any reputational concerns. A significant increase in the availability, acceptance and use of credit card, debit card, bank transfer services or digital currencies for online payments by consumers in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect the growth of our business, our financial condition and results of operations. Material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified, and we have yet to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls relating to financial reporting have not kept pace with the expansion of our business. Our financial reporting function and system of internal controls are less developed in certain aspects than those of similar companies that operate in fewer or more developed markets and may not provide our management with as much or as accurate or timely information. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has defined a material weakness as “a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.” A significant deficiency is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified seven material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting continue to exist. The first material weakness is that our SAP system and our MLogin system do not reconcile revenue recognized by MOL AccessPortal upon the redemption of the MOLPoints and deferred revenue for unutilized MOLpoints that remain in users’ MOLPoints wallets. The second material weakness relates to the IT general control environment, which includes design and operating effectiveness of IT controls, of MOL AccessPortal, MyCNX and Uniwiz, in addition to the lack of segregation of duties of IT personnel at Game Sultan and PaytoGo. The third material weakness relates to the lack of access control and audit trails over the e-pins inventory database. Three material weaknesses were identified at PayByMe, the mobile carrier billing platform that we acquired in September 2014, namely (a) the lack of documentation for journal entries and inadequacy of human resources for consistent financial reporting on a timely basis; (b) lack of reconciliation of confirmation processes with respect to current accounts; and (c) the lack of an internal control department. In addition, a material weakness was identified at NganLuong, our Vietnam subsidiary which we acquired in 2013, relating to the incorrect reporting of fees payable to merchants and the incorrect reporting of VAT. We have undertaken, and are continuing to undertake, certain remedial steps to address the material weaknesses. With respect to the lack of reconciliation for the revenue recognized and deferred revenue in connection with MOLPoints, our finance team is working closely with the technical team to generate MOLPoints status reports in order to monitor redemptions of MOLPoints more effectively. The ability to generate such reports is expected to be in place by the third quarter of 2015. To remedy the material weaknesses identified at MOL AccessPortal, MyCNX, Uniwiz, Game Sultan and PaytoGo, we have adopted several measures to improve our internal control over financial reporting. Our IT department is spearheading a group wide IT improvement program, including the implementation of formal IT policies, which is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2015. This exercise is also intended to include all necessary IT system upgrades to improve overall integrity and reliability of our financial reporting. We are also in the process of implementing a transaction log to maintain audit trails for our e-pins inventory database. In July 2014, we replaced our current back-end system with a new system supported from our head office. The administrative ID control is maintained centrally, which restricts access to the appropriate and relevant personnel. In addition, our management plans to perform an internal audit of our financial and IT systems every six months. We are currently conducting a feasibility study in order to assess whether our IT controls have any additional deficiencies. We also intend to undertake measures to remedy the material weaknesses at PayByMe. We intend to train a finance manager to oversee PayByMe’s entire financial reporting process, review journal entries and ensure that financial statements are supported with proper explanatory documentation. In addition, during 2015, we plan to establish a reconciliation process at PayByMe to ensure that account reconciliations are prepared on a timely basis for all accounts and we intend to set up an internal control department to monitor operations and control activities at PayByMe. With respect to NganLuong, as disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC concurrently with the filing of this annual report, certain accounting errors have been identified in connection with NganLuong’s financial results. • As disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637), furnished to the SEC on December 2, 2014, during the course of our review of our financial results for the third quarter of 2014, our auditor discovered that our Vietnamese subsidiary, NganLuong, which we acquired in March 2013, reported revenue from its payment business on a gross basis, and accounted for the corresponding fees payable to merchants in direct cost and other ancillary expenses. However, our accounting policy is to account for such transactions on a net basis because we act as an agent with respect to these revenue arrangements, such that the corresponding fees payable to merchants should have been netted out of revenue and not included in direct cost and other ancillary expenses. • In addition, during the course of our review of our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014, our auditor discovered that NganLuong incorrectly included VAT in revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses. However, our accounting policy is to exclude value added tax, or VAT, from revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses. The effect of the foregoing errors was to overstate MOLPay’s segment revenue and MOLPay’s segment direct cost and other ancillary expenses by equal amounts. As a result, the revenue line item and direct cost and other ancillary expenses line item are overstated by equal amounts in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the three month periods ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013 included in our registration statement on Form F-1, as amended (File Number: 333-197401) in relation to our initial public offering, and the three month period ended September 30, 2014 included in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC on December 2, 2014. We determined not to restate our financial statements for the full year or any interim period in 2013, as we concluded that the adjustments are not material to our consolidated financial statements as a whole for any period in 2013. In particular, we considered the quantitative materiality of our MOLPay segment for 2013, and a variety of qualitative criteria including those set forth in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99: Materiality. In relation to the relevant financial periods of 2014, we restated our financial statements for the three month periods ended March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, and the six months period ended June 30, 2014, to account for these errors. See Item 3.D. “Key Information – Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Our Business – Certain errors were identified in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for three month periods ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013.” We have taken steps to improve NganLuong’s internal controls over financial reporting to detect and identify revenue and expenses flows in the business. We have conducted and will continue to conduct visits with, and reviews of, the local finance team, in addition to providing training and development. 13 Table of Contents Significant deficiencies were also identified in the internal controls of various group companies, relating among other things, to the lack of an internal control department as well as matters relating to documentation, IT systems and record-keeping processes. As our business has grown rapidly in scope and complexity, our internal controls relating to these matters have not kept pace with the growth in our business. We will continue to implement measures to remediate our internal control deficiencies in order to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. We can give no assurance that our planned remediation will be properly implemented or will be sufficient to eliminate such material weaknesses and significant deficiencies or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may result in volatility in and a decline in the market price of the ADSs. Our Co-Chief Executive Officers and Group Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2014 was not effective as a result of the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. The audits of our independent registered public accounting firm included consideration of internal control over financial reporting, and the identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies, as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are not required to, and our independent registered public accounting firm did not, undertake an audit of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, whether of the type set forth in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or otherwise. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until our annual report on Form 20-F following the date on which we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company,” which may be up to five full fiscal years following the date of our initial public offering. If in subsequent years we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors express an opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations, and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. 14 Table of Contents Certain errors were identified in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for three month periods ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013. As disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC concurrently with the filing of this annual report, during the course of our review of our financial results for the third quarter of 2014, and our review of our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014, certain accounting errors were identified at our Vietnam subsidiary, NganLuong, which we acquired in March 2013. These errors have the effect of overstating our revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses for certain periods by equal amounts and do not affect any other line item in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for such periods. As disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637), furnished to the SEC on December 2, 2014, during the course of our review of our financial results for the third quarter of 2014, our auditor discovered that NganLuong reported revenue from its payment business on a gross basis, and accounted for the corresponding fees payable to merchants in direct cost and other ancillary expenses. However, our accounting policy is to account for such transactions on a net basis because we act as an agent with respect to these revenue arrangements, such that the corresponding fees payable to merchants should have been netted out of revenue and not included in direct cost and other ancillary expenses. The effect of these errors was to overstate MOLPay’s segment revenue and MOLPay’s segment direct cost and other ancillary expenses by equal amounts. As a result of these errors, the revenue line item and direct cost and other ancillary expenses line item in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the three month periods ended June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013 included in our registration statement on Form F-1, as amended (File Number: 333-197401) in relation to our initial public offering were overstated by equal amounts. Our financial results for the three months ended September 30, 2014 disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC on December 2, 2014, and our financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014 disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC on March 31, 2015, correctly reported revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses on a net basis. The effects of accounting for payments on a gross basis rather than a net basis on our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income (with percentages against corrected amounts) are that: (i) revenue was overstated by MYR0.3 million (0.8%), MYR1.0 million (2.4%), MYR0.9 million (2.0%), MYR1.6 million (3.4%), MYR2.1 million (4.5%), MYR7.2 million (14.7%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR1.3 million (1.7%) and MYR9.3 million (9.7%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR3.7 million (2.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2013; and (ii) direct cost and other ancillary expenses was overstated by MYR0.3 million (2.1%), MYR1.0 million (5.5%), MYR0.9 million (5.5%), MYR1.6 million (8.8%), MYR2.1 million (10.2%) and MYR7.2 million (32.2%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR1.3 million (4.0%) and MYR9.3 million (21.7%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR3.7 million (5.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, during the course of our review of our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014, our auditor discovered that NganLuong incorrectly included VAT in revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses. However, our accounting policy is to exclude VAT from revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses. The effect of these errors was to overstate MOLPay’s segment revenue and MOLPay’s segment direct cost and other ancillary expenses by equal amounts. As a result, the revenue line item and direct cost and other ancillary expenses line item are overstated by equal amounts in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the three month periods ended June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013 (each of which is included in our registration statement on Form F-1, as amended (File Number: 333-197401) in relation to our initial public offering), and the three months ended September 30, 2014 (which is included in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC on December 2, 2014). Our financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014 disclosed in our interim report on Form 6-K (File No. 001-36637) furnished to the SEC on March 31, 2015 correctly reported revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses excluding VAT. The effects of including VAT in revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses on our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income (with percentages against corrected amounts) are that: (i) revenue was overstated by MYR43,000 (0.1%), MYR0.2 million (0.5%), MYR0.1 million (0.3%), MYR0.2 million (0.4%), MYR0.2 million (0.4%), MYR1.0 million (2.0%) and MYR0.5 million (1.1%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR0.2 million (0.3%) and MYR1.2 million (1.2%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR0.6 million (0.3%) for the year ended December 31, 2013; and (ii) direct cost and other ancillary expenses was overstated by MYR43,000 (0.3%), MYR0.2 million (1.0%), MYR0.1 million (0.7%), MYR0.2 million (1.2%), MYR0.2 million (1.0%), MYR1.0 million (4.6%) and MYR0.5 million (2.5%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR0.2 million (0.7%) and MYR1.2 million (2.8%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR0.6 million (0.8%) for the year ended December 31, 2013. The aggregate effects of the foregoing errors on our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income (with percentages against corrected amounts) are that: (i) revenue was overstated by MYR0.3 million (0.9%), MYR1.2 million (2.9%), MYR1.0 million (2.3%), MYR1.8 million (3.9%), MYR2.3 million (4.9%), MYR8.2 million (17.0%) and MYR0.5 million (1.1%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR1.5 million (2.0%) and MYR10.5 million (11.1%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR4.3 million (2.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2013; and (ii) direct cost and other ancillary expenses was overstated by MYR0.3 million (2.4%), MYR1.2 million (6.6%), MYR1.0 million (6.3%), MYR1.8 million (10.0%), MYR2.3 million (11.2%), MYR8.2 million (38.2%) and MYR0.5 million (2.5%) for the three months ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, respectively; by MYR1.5 million (4.8%) and MYR10.5 million (25.2%) for the six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, respectively; and by MYR4.3 million (6.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2013. We determined not to restate our financial statements for the full year or any interim period in 2013, as we concluded that the adjustments are not material to our consolidated financial statements as a whole for any period in 2013. In particular, we considered the quantitative effect of the errors on our revenue and direct cost and other ancillary expenses for 2013, the quantitative materiality of our MOLPay segment for 2013, and a variety of qualitative criteria including those set forth in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99: Materiality. In relation to the relevant financial periods of 2014, we restated our financial statements for the three month periods ended March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014 and the six months period ended June 30, 2014 to account for these errors. See Item 3.D. “Key Information – Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Our Business – Certain errors were identified in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for three month periods ended June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013.” Pending class action litigation may expose us to significant liabilities, result in negative publicity and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prices of our ADSs. Two putative class action complaints have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors alleging certain untrue statements and omissions in our registration statement and prospectus in connection with our initial public offering of ADSs and seeking unspecified damages and other relief. The court has indicated that it will consolidate the two complaints into a single case. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation could have an adverse impact on us as significant legal costs have been and will likely to continue to be incurred and as a result of diversion of management’s time and other resources. Also, any negative publicity arising from these claims is likely to damage our brand and reputation, harm our ability to attract and retain customers, content providers, distribution channels and other partners and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and adversely affect our ability to raise debt financing in the future. Any adverse outcome from these proceeding including but not limited to monetary damages which may be awarded to the plaintiffs will result in a material and adverse impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and the prices of our securities. 15 Table of Contents Our consolidated financial statements are prepared and presented in accordance with IFRS, while the financial statements of our subsidiaries are prepared and presented in accordance with local generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Because the financial statements of certain of our subsidiaries are not prepared and presented in accordance with IFRS certain adjustments are required in the consolidation process. If such adjustments are not property implemented there could be errors in our consolidated financial statements. For example, see “Risk Factors – Certain errors were identified in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for three month periods ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014 and September 30, 2014, the six month periods ended June 30, 2013 and 2014, and the year ended December 31, 2013.” There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain the pace of recent growth in our business and develop, or sustain, profitable operations in new markets. A significant proportion of our recent growth has been derived from our expansion to new markets, especially through acquisitions, as a critical element of our business strategy depends on our ability to profitably develop and grow our operations in several countries outside Malaysia, including Thailand, Turkey, the Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia, the United States, Australia, Brazil, Taiwan and Vietnam, among others. Our successive acquisitions and rapid expansion make comparisons with historical data difficult, as these acquisitions have contributed significantly to our revenue growth and expansion of our operations. For example, we acquired 70% of each of Game Sultan and PaytoGo in Turkey in 2013 and acquired the remaining 30% equity interest in each of Game Sultan and PaytoGo in 2014. Our revenue from Turkey for 2013 was MYR23.2 million, or 13.5% of our total revenue for 2013 . Our revenue from Turkey for 2014 was MYR22.8 million, or 11.2% of our total revenue for 2014. If we reduce the pace of our acquisitions, our future revenue growth and expansion may be affected. Furthermore, because we engage in a significant number of relatively small acquisitions, it is not always cost-effective to conduct due diligence as thoroughly as we would in connection with more material acquisitions. For example, where we acquire companies with substantial inventory, it is possible that a significant portion of the inventory is obsolete, in which case the acquired company may not be as valuable as expected. We may not discover this until after we have agreed the price, or consummated, the acquisition, in which case we may be required to write down the value of the acquired company. Our growth strategy entails, among others, developing platform interfaces in local languages adapted for local practices and tastes, recruiting and retaining local management personnel, introducing product offerings that are localized and customized for users in those markets, complying with new and changing regulatory environments, developing and maintaining a substantial network of physical payment locations and contracting local merchants to offer our services to their customers. We have a limited operating history in most countries outside Malaysia where we operate and, in certain of these countries, we are not yet profitable. Furthermore, as we enter new markets in the future, we generally expect to operate at a loss for a period while we seek to develop our brands and relationships in that market. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop profitable operations in all the countries in which we are currently operating or which we may enter in the future. Our inability to develop profitable operations in such markets would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years in the scope of our operations, which will continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational, financial and technological infrastructure. As we continue to grow, we must expend significant resources to identify, hire, integrate, develop and motivate a large number of qualified employees. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. To effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, we will need to continue spending significant resources to improve our technology infrastructure, our operational, financial and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures by, among other things: • setting up a network operations center to monitor and update our technology infrastructure to maintain high performance, enhance system availability and minimize down time; 16 Table of Contents • implementing third party solutions to enhance information and communication systems with a view to ensuring that our employees and offices around the world are well-coordinated and can effectively communicate with each other; • enhancing our internal controls to ensure timely and accurate reporting of all of our operations by implementing the SAP Business One accounting system regionally; • documenting our information technology systems and our business processes, for example by adopting a product requirements definition, functional requirements definition, technical design definition, merchant integration guide and payment integration guide, among other policy documents; • implementing a business continuity plan and a disaster recovery plan for our servers outside Malaysia similar to that which we implemented for our main servers in Kuala Lumpur in 2013; and • expanding our information technology infrastructure into a third party cloud platform. These enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. If we fail to implement these enhancements and improvements effectively, our ability to manage our expected growth and comply with the rules and regulations that are applicable to public reporting companies will be impaired. In addition, if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The growing complexity of our business may result in the segmental reporting of our results of operations to become misleading and we may make changes to our business segments and the manner in which we allocate revenue among our business segments. For management purposes, our business is organized into five segments, namely MOLPoints, MOLReloads, MOLPay, MMOG.asia, and Others. Due to the growing complexity of our business, and because we seek to leverage the revenue generating capabilities of each business segment, there is a degree of overlap among these segments. As a result, our management exercises discretion in determining the segment to which a portion of our revenue is allocated. For example, sales of game credits are generally allocated to our MOLPoints segment. However, for transactions where a consumer uses MOLPay as a payment gateway to purchase game credits, the resulting revenue is allocated to our MOLPay segment. Such transactions accounted for revenue of MYR0.07 million, MYR4.5 million and MYR4.2 million, or 0.1%, 2.6% and 2.1% of our total revenue, for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. As the significance of such transactions grows, our segmental reporting of results of operations may become misleading and we may make changes to our business segments and the manner in which we allocate revenue among those segments. Any of the foregoing could cause our results of operations for future periods not to be comparable to our results of operations for prior periods. Our mobile carrier billing business exposes us to certain risks. We have recently expanded our mobile carrier billing business with MOL Thailand’s acquisition of 60% of Easy2Pay in May 2014 and our acquisition of 51% of PaybyMe in September 2014. This business, which enables consumers to use their mobile phone accounts to pay for online purchases, exposes us to certain risks. For example, telecommunications service operators may set policies, or become subject to regulations, that limit customers’ usage, which would effectively limit the potential size of our mobile carrier billing business. Similarly, regulations could be enacted that effectively control and standardize the digital payments industry or prevent subscribers from being charged for third party transactions on the mobile phone statement. There is also a risk that goods purchased through mobile carrier billing may not ultimately be paid for, for example if goods are purchased using a stolen phone, if a consumer uses false personal data to sign up for mobile account or if a consumer simply neglects to pay their mobile phone bill. If a mobile subscriber refuses to pay their mobile phone bill, this would result in bad debt and would typically be subject to the telecommunications service provider’s collection policies. As with other technologies, there is a risk that our, or a telecommunications service provider’s, platform, or a consumer’s mobile phone, could be hacked or infected with malware resulting in potential unauthorized transactions. Furthermore, our mobile carrier billing business requires working capital to the extent we are required to pay online merchants before we receive revenue from the telecommunications service provider. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our payment system might be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes such as money laundering, which could expose us to additional liability and harm our business. Despite measures we have taken and continue to take, our payment system remains susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include the use of our payment services in connection with fraudulent sales of goods or services, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud and prohibited sales of restricted products. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. We could be subject to fraud claims if confidential information obtained from customers is used for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information or impersonation. In addition, we are subject to the risk of claims related to counterfeit MOLPoints or fraud committed by merchants where customers use MOLPoints, either of which could cause consumers and merchants to lose confidence in our products, damage our reputation and subject us to liability claims. We are also subject to the risk that users could use our system to engage in illegal or improper activities, which could damage our reputation. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage these risks. We are not able to monitor in each case the sources for our counterparties’ funds or the ways in which they use them. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, an increase in fraudulent transactions or publicity regarding chargeback disputes could harm our reputation and reduce consumer confidence in our services. 17 Table of Contents As we expand our business internationally, we will face additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks, any of which could increase our costs and hinder such growth. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to international expansion through acquisitions and organic growth, including the establishment of additional offices. Expanding our business internationally will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial infrastructures. For example, we may become subject to risks that we have not faced before or increase the risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: • recruiting and retaining talented and capable management and employees in various countries; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • contracting with content providers for games and other digital content that appeal to the tastes and preferences of users in international markets; • competition from local competitors with significant market share in those markets and with a better understanding of consumer preferences; • protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • negotiating agreements that are sufficiently economically beneficial to us and protective of our rights; • the inability to extend proprietary rights in our brand, content or technology into new jurisdictions; • implementing our payment methods for virtual and other goods in a manner that complies with local laws and practices and protects us from fraud; • complying with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including privacy laws, consumer protection laws, anti-money laundering laws, and laws and regulations relating to content, currencies and payment systems; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • foreign tax consequences; • foreign exchange controls or tax restrictions that might restrict or prevent us from repatriating income earned in foreign countries; • political, economic and social instability; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. Entering new international markets or expanding our operations in existing international markets will involve substantial cost and our ability to successfully gain market acceptance in any particular market is uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully grow our business internationally. Our expansion into new jurisdictions could involve challenges for us associated with the social, regulatory, political or economic environments in those jurisdictions, particularly where those jurisdictions have economies that are generally considered to be developing. For example, we plan to expand into a number of countries that are widely considered to have developing economies, such as countries in the Middle East, North Africa, Eastern Europe and in Latin America and will face additional risks associated with our expansion into these regions. In recent years there has been substantial political instability in a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Such political instability could potentially negatively affect market sentiment towards other countries in the region, including the countries in which we plan to expand our operations, or potentially disrupt our operations if the countries to which we plan to expand our operations were to become unstable. In Eastern Europe, we recently expanded our operations into Poland, which has undergone significant political and economic change since 1989. Future political, economic, social and other developments could adversely affect our planned business there. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in Thailand are subject to restrictions on foreign ownership of their shares under Thai law. Pursuant to the Thai Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999), or FBA, a “foreign entity” (as defined in the FBA) cannot conduct business in certain sectors in Thailand, including the industry that our subsidiaries in Thailand operate in, unless an appropriate license is obtained. As our subsidiaries in Thailand do not hold such license, they are subject to restrictions on foreign ownership of their shares in order to ensure that none of them are “foreign entities” under the FBA. 18 Table of Contents Under the FBA, it is also unlawful for a Thai national or entity to hold shares in a Thai company as a nominee for or on behalf of a foreigner in order to circumvent the foreign ownership restrictions. While there are no clear official guidelines or criteria stipulated under the FBA or by the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand in determining whether a Thai national or entity is holding shares in a Thai company as a nominee for or on behalf of a foreigner, certain factors are generally considered, including: (i) the intention of the parties, (ii) the source of funds used for the investment by the Thai shareholder, (iii) the direct voting rights of the Thai and foreign shareholders in the Thai company and (iv) the distribution of dividends by the Thai company to the Thai and foreign shareholders. Based on the advice of counsel, we believe that the ownership structure of our Thai subsidiaries is in compliance with applicable Thai law based on, among others, the fact that a majority of the share capital of our Thai subsidiaries is held by Thai nationals or entities for their own benefit. We therefore, believe that our subsidiaries in Thailand are not “foreign entities” under the FBA, and that the share ownership structure of our subsidiaries in Thailand do not violate the legal prohibitions against nominee arrangements. However, there is a risk that the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand may reach a different conclusion, which could lead to an action being brought in the Thai court. If the court determines that a nominee arrangement exists with respect to any of our subsidiaries in Thailand, the court may order sanctions, which may include criminal sanctions, against us and the Thai shareholders of such subsidiary in Thailand, and such subsidiary may be ordered to cease operations in Thailand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter problems relating to the businesses that we operate with minority shareholders. We operate a number of our businesses through subsidiaries that are not wholly owned by us. Among others, we own, directly or indirectly, 86.73% of MOL Thailand; 50% of NganLuong, which conducts our operations in Vietnam; 54.2% of Rixty, which conducts our operations in the United States and Brazil; 65% of MOL Australia, which conducts our operations in Australia; 93.50% of MOL Taiwan, which conducts our operations in Taiwan; 51% of MOLPay Sdn. Bhd., which operates our e-commerce payments service; an effective 52% interest in Easy2Pay, a mobile carrier billing platform that operates in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Singapore and 51% of PaybyMe, a mobile carrier billing platform that currently operates in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, Bahrain, Egypt, Azerbajian, Ukraine, Russia and Poland. To the extent there are disagreements between us and the other holders of equity interests in our subsidiaries regarding the business and operations of these companies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve them in a manner that will be in our best interests. In addition, our partners in our subsidiaries may be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations, whether of a financial nature or otherwise; have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies and objectives; take actions that are not acceptable to regulatory authorities; or experience financial difficulties. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to additional tax liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The application, interpretation and enforcement of sales and use tax, VAT, goods and services tax (GST), business tax, gross receipt tax, and other taxes and related regulations applicable to e-commerce businesses and consumers are complex and evolving. Primarily because many of the laws and regulations relating to taxation were established prior to the widespread adoption of the internet and e-commerce, it is not always clear how these laws apply to businesses such as ours. In addition, as governments seek to increase tax revenue, certain jurisdictions in which we operate have considered tax reform, including proposals to increase taxes on e-commerce businesses and consumers. Furthermore, companies in the payment processing industry, including us, may become subject to taxation in various tax jurisdictions, some of which may not have adopted uniform positions on this topic. Any change to tax regulations relating to our business or our customers, and any change to the application, interpretation or enforcement of such regulations, could adversely impact our revenues or the cost of our products to our customers. For example, as a result of the implementation of GST in Malaysia, commencing from April 1, 2015 we will be required to collect GST in connection with sales of our products in Malaysia. Any failure to comply with our obligations in this respect could result in penalties. In addition PaybyMe has collected VAT that we believe we will not be required to remit to the local tax authorities because the VAT was collected from foreign merchants who are not registered in Turkey. This VAT is recognized by PaybyMe as revenue and this revenue recognition would have to be reversed if the local tax authorities claim that this VAT is payable to them. 19 Table of Contents Our competitive position may be adversely impacted if our business or customers are taxed differently from our competitors, whether due to the jurisdictions in which we or our competitors are organized, located or operating, or for any other reason. It is also possible that we could be found liable to pay taxes with respect to previous tax periods during which we are found to have been liable to collect and pay taxes and failed to do so. Furthermore, any requirement for us to calculate, collect or pay taxes that are levied on our business or our customers, and any resulting communication, review, audit or inspection, could consume financial resources and divert management attention from our core operations. In addition, certain policies that we develop and apply to our operations, including but not limited to transfer pricing policies, can impact our tax position and there can be no assurance that such policies and our application of such policies will not be challenged by the regulators. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We benefit from certain tax exemptions that will expire. Several of our Malaysian subsidiaries have been granted Multimedia Super Corridor Malaysia, or MSC Malaysia, status by the Minister of Finance of Malaysia and the Minister of International Trade and Industry of Malaysia, and enjoy certain incentives, including “pioneer status,” which entitles a company to a five-year exemption from Malaysian income tax on income derived from MSC Malaysia-related activities, which is renewable for a second five-year term provided certain conditions are met. There can be no assurance that we will continue to benefit from these incentives or that these incentives will not be revoked or modified in any way in the future. While several of our Malaysian subsidiaries have only recently been granted this exemption, MyCNX’s second five-year exemption will expire in 2017, and MyCNX will thereafter be subject to Malaysian income tax. Failure to continue to develop and expand our product and service offerings and their features, and to develop or incorporate the technologies that support them, could jeopardize our competitive position. We participate in an industry characterized by rapidly changing technology and new products and services. For example, in recent years there has been an increasing emphasis on the delivery of games, music and other content on mobile devices, in addition to e-wallets and similar mobile electronic payment products and services. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and expand our product and service offerings. We must also continue to enhance and improve the user interface, functionality and features of our websites. These efforts may require us to develop internally, or to license, increasingly complex technologies. In addition, our competitors may introduce new internet-related products, services and technologies, which will require us to update or modify our own technology to keep pace. Purchasing preferences for mobile airtime may change, which could reduce the demand for the airtime sold through our MOLReloads distribution network. In addition, a shift to post-paid mobile services in our key markets may negatively impact our MOLReloads business. Developing and integrating new products, services and technologies into our existing businesses could be expensive and time-consuming. Furthermore, we may not be able to license technology we require on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We may not succeed in incorporating new internet or mobile technologies or obtaining approvals for the use of our products on mobile operating systems, or, in order to do so, we may incur substantial expenses. If we fail to develop and introduce or acquire new content, features, services or technologies effectively and on a timely basis, we may cease to attract new consumers and merchants and may be unable to retain our existing consumers and merchants, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MMOG.asia expects to launch 16 new online games in 2015 including six mobile games. If these new games or our entrance into new markets and mobile games are delayed or fail to gain market acceptance, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulations with respect to electronic payment services and data privacy, among others. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry, and their scope have increased significantly in recent years. We are subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and financing criminal activity and terrorism, financial services regulations, electronic payment services regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, and privacy and data protection laws. Money laundering and the financing of terrorism are prohibited in Malaysia, which also has regulations requiring certain entities to report certain activities to BNM. MOL AccessPortal (as an issuer of e-money) and MOLPay Sdn. Bhd. (as a payment systems operator) are considered “reporting institutions” and are under an obligation to monitor and report suspicious transactions to BNM. They are also required to implement various measures such as know your customer procedures and ongoing customer due diligence to facilitate the prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing offences. In Malaysia, we are also subject to consumer protection laws which imply certain statutory guarantees as to the quality of services provided and prohibit misleading and deceptive trade practices and the imposition of unfair contract terms. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, these laws and regulations vary significantly from country to country and are often evolving, unclear or inconsistent with other applicable laws. For example, in Malaysia we are subject to the Malaysian Financial Services Act of 2013 as a non-bank e-money issuer and provider of merchant acquiring services, which in turn makes us subject to a number of other regulations. In particular, MOL AccessPortal’s business as an e-money issuer is dependent on it maintaining its approval from BNM (which BNM has the right to reassess at any time). In Turkey, PaytoGo’s operations will subject us to the Payment Services and Electronic Money Institutions Law enacted on June 27, 2013 which remains subject to pending secondary legislation. As a result, PaytoGo will be required to obtain clearances from the Turkish Central Bank and Banking Regulations Supervisory Agency. MOL AccessPortal distributes MOLPoints in several markets outside of Malaysia. We obtain licenses in jurisdictions where we believe they are required based on the nature of our business activity and the legal and regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions. It is possible, however, that the authorities in certain jurisdictions may take the position that we are required to obtain licenses or otherwise comply with laws and regulations which we believe are not required or applicable. As a result, we may be required to change the manner or business activity that we conduct in such markets, obtain licenses or otherwise comply with regulations. We may also be subject to penalties and sanctions for previously operating without a license. See “Regulation.” In certain jurisdictions, governments have not yet issued relevant regulations or implementation guidelines to relevant regulations, but are expected to issue new regulations or implementation guidelines in the near future. The implementation of new regulations or guidelines could require us to change the way we conduct our business, incur new expenses or retain legal counsel or additional staff to ensure compliance with such regulations. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. As we further expand internationally, the geographical scope and complexity of the regulation frameworks to which we are subject will increase. In addition, we receive, store and process personal information and other data. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in a state of flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet and mobile platforms have recently come under increased public scrutiny. Various government and consumer agencies have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. It is possible that obligations imposed under applicable laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to our users or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of information or other data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our users to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, if third parties with whom we work, such as individual users, distribution partners, content providers and online merchants, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may put information at risk and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We will need to obtain government approvals to implement our growth strategy. Implementing our growth strategy may require approvals from governmental entities in Malaysia and other jurisdictions where we have operations. For example, as a result of regulatory restrictions in Malaysia relating to online payments, we are required to limit the balance of MOLPoints in a registered account to MYR500. In April 2015, we received conditional approval from BNM to increase this limit to MYR1,500 from MYR500 subject to fulfilling certain BNM requirements. For accounts based in a country where we accept local currency other than Malaysia, the balance is not permitted to exceed the local currency equivalent of MYR500, which will increase to MYR1,500 upon our fulfillment of the specified BNM requirements. For accounts based in all other countries, transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars and the balance is not permitted to exceed the U.S. dollar equivalent of MYR500, which will increase to MYR1,500 upon our fulfillment of the specified BNM requirements. For all accounts based outside Malaysia, we adjust the balance limit whenever the exchange rate between the applicable currency and Malaysian Ringgit fluctuates by at least 5% since the most recent adjustment. In addition, as we launch our MOLWallet business, we will need to obtain approval from the relevant central banking authority in each country in which we intend to operate our MOLWallet business. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could jeopardize our competitive position. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. In order for us to compete and grow successfully, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. This is particularly true with respect to qualified and experienced software engineers and IT staff, who are highly sought after and are not in sufficient supply in Malaysia and in most other markets in which we operate. The market for such personnel is highly competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. It may also be difficult for us to obtain necessary qualified personnel with local experience to support our international growth, which may jeopardize our ongoing and planned expansion. For this reason, we are reliant on certain managers who have joined us through our acquisitions, including but not limited to certain managers of MyCNX, in addition to our Co-CEO, Preecha Praipattarakul, who joined us through our acquisition of MOL Thailand. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends upon our senior management and key managerial personnel and our ability to retain them and attract new key personnel when necessary. Our Co-CEO and our Group CFO assumed these roles in March 2015. We place substantial reliance on the industry experience and knowledge of our senior management team as well as the senior management teams at our subsidiaries in our key operating countries and their relationships with other industry participants. Finding suitable replacements for our current senior management could be difficult as competition for such talent is intense. For example, Mr. Ganesh Kumar Bangah, our co-founder and Executive Chairman, our Co-CEOs, Charles Chee Chau Ng and Preecha Praipattarakul, and our Group CFO, Ramesh Pathmanathan, are each particularly important to our future success. In addition, historically, once we acquire a new subsidiary, we tend to retain the key personnel at such subsidiary, including, in a number of cases, the founder, and these personnel are especially important for our businesses in the relevant countries. Furthermore, our Co-CEOs, Charles Chee Chau Ng and Preecha Praipattarakul, and our Group CFO, Ramesh Pathmanathan, assumed these roles in March 2015. Charles Chee Chau Ng had previously served as our Chief Operating Officer and Preecha Praipattarakul had previously served as the Chief Executive Officer of our subsidiary, MOL Thailand. Ramesh Pathmanathan was not employed by the company prior to March 2015. We do not carry key person insurance on any member of our senior management team. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business, adversely affect our international operations and harm our ability to implement our growth strategies. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our ability to manage our business effectively, including our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We have in the past and expect to continue to engage in acquisitions and other inorganic growth opportunities, especially as we expand into new markets. Acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies or businesses require significant attention from our management, in particular to ensure that the acquisition does not disrupt any existing collaborations, or affect our users’, distribution channels’ and merchants’ opinions and perceptions of our services and customer support. As part of our strategy of expansion, we have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire businesses or interests in businesses, including non-controlling interests, form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. For example, in 2013 we acquired 70% of each of Game Sultan, which operates a micropayment system for the Turkish market, and PaytoGo, which operates a payment service provider for the Turkish market, and AyoPay, an Indonesian payment service provider that specializes in online distribution of game credits. We acquired the remaining 30% equity interest in each of Game Sultan and PaytoGo in 2014. We also acquired 50% of NganLuong, which now serves as our primary distribution network in Vietnam. In May 2014, our subsidiary, MOL Thailand acquired 60% of Easy2Pay, a mobile carrier billing platform that currently operates in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Singapore. In September 2014, we acquired 51% of PaybyMe, a mobile carrier billing platform that currently operates in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, Bahrain, Egypt, Azerbajian, Ukraine, Russia and Poland. We expect to continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of businesses or products with the intention to expand our user and revenue base, widen our geographic coverage and increase our product range. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, to a significant extent, on the integration of the target businesses into our group, the performance and development of the underlying services or technologies, our correct assessment of assumed liabilities and the management of the relevant operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired businesses or products and the integration may divert our management’s focus from our core business and result in disruption to our normal business operations. We may spend time and resources on such acquisitions that do not ultimately increase our profitability or that cause loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and users as a result of the integration of new businesses. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in integration could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. 22 Table of Contents We may require additional capital to meet our financial obligations and support business growth, including through acquisitions, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to continue to make significant investments, including potential acquisitions, to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or services, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, equity securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Any debt financing that we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital (including by restricting the ability of our company, or our subsidiaries, to distribute dividends to our shareholders and our company, respectively) and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. We had negative working capital positions in the past and may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses or execute our business plans. We had a negative working capital position as at each of December 31, 2012 and 2013. Working capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities. Our working capital ratio, which is defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, as at December 31, 2012 and 2013 was 78.2% and 62.0%, respectively. Borrowings under our credit facility from MDV are required by applicable accounting guidance to be classified as current liabilities because the facility is a revolving facility. Amounts due to other related parties are classified as current liabilities as of the relevant balance sheet dates because there are no stated repayment terms. We plan to fully repay our credit facility with MDV. We believe that we have adequate working capital for our present requirements and that our net cash generated from operating activities, together with cash and cash equivalents and funds from financing sources, will provide sufficient funds to satisfy our working capital requirements for the next 12 months. However, if our future cash from operating activities is lower than expected or we fail to obtain additional financing in the future, this would impede our ability to make continued investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the volume of MOLPoints used to purchase digital content, primarily game credits, which in turn is dependent on the popularity of the underlying games. MOLPoints can be used to purchase digital content, including game credits for online games such as those licensed and operated by our games portal, MMOG.asia. For a game to remain popular, game operators must constantly enhance, expand or upgrade the games with new features that players find attractive. Game operators, including MMOG.asia, may not be able to successfully enhance, expand or upgrade current games. Any decrease in the popularity of MMOG.asia’s licensed games and any other games that accept MOLPoints, any breach of game-related security or prolonged server interruption, or any other adverse developments relating to such games, could materially and adversely affect our sales volume and results of operations. In addition, paying players purchase virtual goods in games because of the perceived value of these goods, which is dependent on the relative ease of securing equivalent goods via non-paid means within the game. The perceived value of these virtual goods can be impacted by an increase in the availability of free or discounted game credits or by various actions that content providers take in the games including offering discounts for virtual goods, giving away virtual goods in promotions or providing easier non-paid means to secure these goods. Our content providers’ management or mismanagement of virtual economies could affect players’ interest in virtual goods and demand for MOLPoints. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our rapid growth, we need to implement enhanced compliance processes, procedures and controls with respect to the rules and regulations that apply to our business. Our business has grown rapidly in recent years and we need to realign our compliance function with the size of our business. In light of the fact that we are a regulated business that processes large volumes of payments and information, we need to implement enhanced processes, procedures and controls in order to provide reasonable assurance that we are operating in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In particular, applicable anti-money laundering laws and laws and regulations aimed at preventing terrorist financing contain numerous requirements with respect to the identification of clients, and documentation and reporting of transactions subject to mandatory control and other suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities. 23 Table of Contents While our administrative systems have developed rapidly, during our earlier history, our practices relating to intellectual property, data privacy and security, and legal compliance may not have been as robust as they are now, and there may be unasserted claims arising from this period that we are not able to anticipate. In addition, our business, including our ability to operate and expand internationally, could be adversely affected if laws or regulations are adopted, interpreted, or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices and that require changes to these practices, the design of our websites, features or our privacy policy. In particular, the success of our business has been, and we expect will continue to be, driven by our ability to responsibly use the data that our users share with us. Therefore, our business could be harmed by any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of data our users choose to share with us, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of users for such use and disclosure is obtained. Such changes may require us to modify our services and features, possibly in a material manner, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the area of information security and data protection, many jurisdictions have passed laws requiring notification to players when there is a security breach for personal data, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to practically implement. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation. Furthermore, any failure on our part to comply with these laws may subject us to significant liabilities. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other laws concerning our international operations. Similar legislation in other jurisdictions contains similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We do not have a fully developed FCPA compliance program and will need to implement such a program, including measures that require our merchants to comply with the FCPA. We have neither an established operating history nor proven management experience in establishing and maintaining, over the long term, the required compliance processes, procedures and controls. Our business involves handling large and growing payment volumes and consumer funds, and our success is dependent on public confidence in our ability to do so as well as our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to manage consumer funds or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the imposition of fines, harm our reputation and significantly diminish use of our products. Our business is exposed to counterparty and credit risks. Under the terms of our service contracts with merchants, we are deemed to have received funds for the purposes of triggering our contractual obligation to transfer funds to a merchant at the time a consumer pays for its purchase using MOLPoints. Where a consumer has paid for the transaction using MOLPoints, even if we have not received any funds from the relevant sale of MOLPoints from the relevant distribution channel, we will be under a contractual obligation to transfer money to the merchant. Furthermore, when an online merchant uses MOLPay to process payment, MOLPay Sdn. Bhd. is technically the “acquirer” for regulatory purposes, which may subject us to liability. In addition, we are subject to the credit risk of merchants being unable to satisfy obligations for which we also may be liable. For example, we may be liable for transactions that are disputed by customers and charged back to the merchant. If we have already paid the merchant but are unable to collect this charged back amount from the merchant, due to the merchant’s insolvency, bankruptcy or other reasons, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the consumer. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with third parties may be legally unenforceable if they are found to infringe applicable competition laws. Our agreements with third parties, or certain provisions of such agreements, may be found to be unenforceable if they are found to infringe the competition laws of jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, we have entered into agreements in Malaysia and Turkey with third parties, including distribution partners, content providers and telecommunications service providers that, among other things, include or may in the future include provisions that grant exclusivity privileges to, impose territorial restrictions on, and/or involve resale price maintenance by, one or more parties. 24 Table of Contents Under the Malaysian Competition Act of 2010, or the MCA, such provisions may be considered to be anti-competitive if they are found to significantly prevent, restrict or distort competition in any market for goods or services. For purposes of the MCA, an anti-competitive agreement will not be deemed significant if (i) the parties to the agreement are competitors and their combined market share is less than 20% of the relevant market; or (ii) the parties to the agreement are not competitors and their individual market share in any relevant market is not more than 25%. The MCA also prohibits enterprises from engaging in any conduct which amounts to an abuse of a dominant position in any market for goods or services. Generally, for purposes of the MCA, market share above 60% would be indicative (but not conclusive evidence) that an enterprise is dominant. If we are seen to be in a dominant position in the market, the provisions on exclusivity, territorial restrictions and/or resale price maintenance could potentially be seen to be an abuse of such dominant position. Some of our businesses may be regulated by the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Act of 1998, or the CMA, in which case the competition-related provisions under the CMA (instead of the MCA) will apply to such businesses. The CMA prohibits a licensee from engaging in any conduct which has the purpose of substantially lessening competition in a communications market, or entering into any understanding, agreement or arrangement which provides for (i) rate fixing; (ii) market sharing (iii) boycotting of a supplier of apparatus; or (iv) boycotting of another competitor. Under Turkish competition rules, where there is an agreement involving an exclusive supply obligation, if the market shares of the parties to the agreement are below 40% in their own market of activity, then a safe harbor, or block exemption, is available, but otherwise a facts and circumstances analysis must be undertaken in order to determine whether an exemption must be sought from the Turkish Competition Board, or TCB. The TCB is the only decision making authority that can grant such exemptions. Similar rules apply for agreements involving territorial restrictions and non-compete obligations. Violation of such Turkish competition rules can result in fines of up to 10% of annual gross revenues. However, because limited guidance, decisions and guidelines are available with respect to determination of the relevant market or the market shares for the industries in which we operate, it is unclear whether our agreements with third parties will be found to infringe applicable competition laws. If any such agreement is found to infringe such laws, the authorities may (i) require that the infringement be ceased immediately; (ii) specify steps which are required to be taken by the infringing enterprise(s) to bring the infringement to an end; (iii) impose financial penalties which could, for example, be 10% of the worldwide turnover of the relevant enterprise over the period during which an infringement occurred; or (iv) take any number of other actions, including imposing sanctions and penalties, as they deem appropriate. There can be no assurance that our agreements will not be found to be unenforceable or to infringe relevant laws and regulations. Any such finding may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on relationships with telecommunications service providers and banks and we derive a portion of our revenue from aggregators and intermediaries. Our top five telecommunications service providers account for nearly all of MOLReloads’ revenue. If our relationship with any of these telecommunications service providers was impaired, or if our revenue sharing arrangements were to become less favorable to us, our business would be adversely impacted. For example, in response to increased volume in 2012, telecommunications service providers in Malaysia imposed reduced discounts and commissions on our MOLReloads business. There can be no assurance that our revenue sharing arrangements will not be revised in manner that is unfavorable to us in Malaysia or any other market where we operate. In addition, in Malaysia, Alliance Bank Malaysia Berhad, or Alliance Bank, processes nearly all credit card payments that are made through MOLPay. If our relationship with Alliance Bank was impaired, or if our fee arrangements with Alliance Bank were to become less favorable to us, our business would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we work with aggregators and intermediaries to enter into mobile carrier billing arrangements and online banking relationships, and to acquire mobile airtime for distribution through MOLReloads. In such cases, we do not have a direct relationship with the mobile carrier or the bank. If any of these aggregators or intermediaries was to choose not to work with us, or if our revenue sharing arrangements with them were to become less favorable to us, our business would be adversely impacted. Any of the foregoing would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may use open-source software in a manner that could be harmful to our business. We use open-source software in connection with our technology and services. The original developers of the open-source code provide no warranties on such code. Moreover, some open-source software licenses require users like us who distribute open-source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open-source code on terms unfavorable to us or at no cost. The use of such open-source code may ultimately require us to replace certain code used in our products, pay a royalty to use some open-source code or discontinue certain products. Any of the above requirements could be harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We also maintain patents for certain of our technologies. We customarily require our employees and independent contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or otherwise to agree to keep our proprietary information confidential when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include clauses requiring our employees to assign to us all of the inventions and intellectual property rights they develop in the course of their employment and to agree not to disclose our confidential information. Nevertheless, others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property. Furthermore, contractual arrangements may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or ensure an adequate remedy in the event of any unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Because of the limited protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as in certain jurisdictions in which we have started expanding our operations, our intellectual property rights may not be as protected as they may be in more developed markets such as the United States. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights (including trade secrets and know-how), which could be expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete and could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services or technology are claimed to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third party’s intellectual property or proprietary rights. Such claims could include patent infringement, copyright infringement, trademark infringement, trade secret misappropriation or breach of licenses. In addition, while we seek to obtain copyright registration certificates for the critical software we develop, our rights to software obtained as works for hire might be potentially challenged by the employees and former employees or developers of such software. We may not be able to successfully defend against such claims, which may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and also might require us to redesign affected services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services. In such circumstances, if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Additionally, in recent years, non-practicing entities have been acquiring patents, making claims of patent infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies in our industry. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit and successfully defend these claims, defending against such claims is time-consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. We do not have, and may be unable to obtain, sufficient insurance to insure against certain business risks. The insurance industry in certain jurisdictions where we operate is not yet fully developed, and many forms of insurance protection common in more developed countries are not yet fully available or are not available on comparable or commercially acceptable terms. We do not currently maintain insurance coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel as we have been unable to obtain these on commercially acceptable terms. We do not hold insurance policies to cover for any losses resulting from counterparty and credit risks and fraudulent transactions, nor for losses from cyber-attacks, software failures and data loss. Other than user funds which are required under law to be held in a separate trust account, we also do not generally maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for most types of business-related risks. Accordingly, our lack of insurance coverage or reserves with respect to business-related risks may expose us to substantial losses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in the countries where we operate. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the internet infrastructure in the countries where we operate. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions or failures of, or other problems with, the relevant internet infrastructure. In addition, the internet infrastructure, especially in the emerging markets where we operate, may not support the demands associated with continued growth in internet usage. We also rely on major telecommunication operators in the countries where we operate to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. We may not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions or failures of, or other problems with, the fixed telecommunications networks of these telecommunications operators, or if such operators otherwise fail to provide such services. Any unscheduled service interruption could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. For example, in Vietnam in December 2013, piping used by our internet service provider experienced an outage and as a result our business in Vietnam was adversely affected for a two-week period. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by the telecommunications operators we use. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be significantly reduced. In addition, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may cause our revenues to decline. 26 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will affect our financial results, which we report in Malaysian Ringgit. As we have continued to expand our international operations, we have become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition to our operations in Malaysia from which we earn revenue denominated in Malaysian Ringgit, we also earn revenue denominated in Baht, Turkish Lira, Philippine Pesos and U.S. dollars, among other currencies. In 2014, 56.5% of our revenue was earned in currencies other than Malaysian Ringgit. We incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses in the local currencies in the markets in which we operate. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Malaysian Ringgit and those other currencies could result in the Malaysian Ringgit equivalent of such expenses being higher and/or the Malaysian Ringgit equivalent of such foreign currency-denominated revenue being lower than would be the case if exchange rates were stable. There can be no assurance that movements in foreign currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. We do not generally enter into hedging contracts to limit our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Malaysian Ringgit, or any other currency. Furthermore, the substantial majority of our revenue is denominated in emerging markets currencies, including Malaysian Ringgit. In recent months, foreign currency exchange rates for emerging markets currencies have experienced substantial volatility. For example, in 2014 the exchange rate of U.S. dollars and Malaysian Ringgit varied from a high of 3.4970 to a low of 3.1465. Because fluctuations in the value of Malaysian Ringgit and other emerging markets currencies are not necessarily correlated, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected by such volatility. Our major shareholder will have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder actions in our company. Our major shareholder and his family members directly and indirectly hold 53.1% of our ordinary shares and voting power. Our major shareholder has advised us that he does not anticipate further disposing of his voting control in us in the near future. Our major shareholder’s voting power gives him the ability to significantly influence actions that require shareholder approval under Cayman Islands law, our memorandum and articles of association and NASDAQ requirements, including the election and removal of a majority of our board of directors, significant mergers and acquisitions and other business combinations, changes to our memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under share incentive plans, and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. Our major shareholder’s voting control may cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of ADSs, and may prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. For example, our major shareholder’s voting control may prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of the ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. In addition, our major shareholder is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without your approval and without providing for a purchase of your ADSs. We are subject to economic risk and business cycles of our merchants and the overall level of consumer spending. Our business depends heavily on the overall level of consumer spending, particularly in our primary markets in Southeast Asia and other emerging markets. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using our services or consumers spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A weakening in the economies in which we operate could have a negative impact on our merchants, as well as consumers who purchase products and services using our payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a weakening in such economies could force some of our merchants to close or go bankrupt or insolvent, or could cause our merchants to reduce the number of their locations or hours of operation, resulting in future transaction declines. We also have a certain amount of fixed costs, including salaries and rent, which could limit our ability to adjust costs and respond quickly to changes in our business and the economies in which we operate. Changes in economic conditions could adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate or otherwise be materially and adversely affected due to seasonal variations. Our sales have historically been higher during festive periods, as our business tends to benefit from consumers’ increased leisure time. Such periods include Chinese New Year, which generally occurs in January or February, Ramadan, which occurred in the third quarter in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014, and the December holiday season. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing and settlement services in connection with our online payment services. We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing and settlement services in connection with our online payment services. If such financial institutions stop providing clearing and settlement services or start imposing excessive processing fees, we would need to find other financial institutions to provide these services. In addition, some of these financial institutions have divisions that provide payment options to consumers that could compete with our services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide clearing and settlement services on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may no longer be able to provide our online payment services to certain customers, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in Malaysia, Alliance Bank processes nearly all credit card payments that are made through MOLPay. If our relationship with Alliance Bank was impaired, or if our fee arrangements with Alliance Bank were to become less favorable to us, our business would be adversely impacted. From time to time, credit card merchant acquirers and banks increase the organization and processing fees (known as interchange fees or debit network fees) that they charge. We may not be able to pass on all of the increases in interchange fees or debit network fees along to our online merchants, if at all. It is possible that competitive pressures may result in our absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margin. Furthermore, we rely on Visa and MasterCard to process most of our credit card transactions and we may be subject to penalties if we do not comply with their rules and procedures, or applicable laws and regulations. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot pass increases from payment networks including interchange, assessment, transaction and other fees, and distribution costs, along to online merchants, our operating margins will be reduced. We pay interchange and other fees set by payment networks to card-issuing financial institutions and payment networks for each transaction we process. From time to time, payment networks increase such fees. At their sole discretion, our financial institution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us and they have consistently done so in the past. We are generally permitted under the contracts into which we enter, and in the past we have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our online merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to pass on these and other fees, and distribution costs, in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any natural or other disasters, including outbreaks of health epidemics, and other extraordinary events could severely disrupt our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communication failures and similar events. If any natural disaster or other extraordinary events were to occur in the area where we operate, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by any outbreak of H7N9 bird flu, H1N1 swine influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. Any prolonged occurrence of swine influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in Southeast Asia could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in Malaysia and Other Countries Where We Operate Developments in the social, political, regulatory and economic environment in Malaysia may have a material adverse impact on us. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by social, political, regulatory and economic developments in Malaysia. Such political and economic uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks of war, terrorism, nationalism, nullification of contract, changes in interest rates, imposition of capital controls and methods of taxation. Furthermore, our business is substantially affected by regulation. For example, it is possible that regulations governing telecommunications service providers may limit customers’ usage, which would effectively limit the potential size of our mobile carrier billing business. Similarly, regulations could be enacted that effectively control and standardize the digital payments industry or prevent subscribers from being charged for third party transactions on their mobile phone statement. 28 Table of Contents Negative developments in Malaysia’s socio-political environment may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Malaysian economy registered growth of 6.0% in 2014, according to the Department of Statistics Malaysia. Although the overall Malaysian economic environment (in which we predominantly operate) appears to be positive, there can be no assurance that this will continue to prevail in the future. Economic, market and political developments in the countries where we operate could have a material and adverse effect on our business. The economic, market and political conditions in other countries, particularly emerging market conditions in Southeast Asia, Turkey and Brazil, could have an influence on our business. Any widespread global financial instability or a significant loss of investor confidence in emerging market economies may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or reputation. Examples of such external factors or conditions that are outside our control include, but are not limited to the following: • general economic, political and social conditions in Southeast Asian countries and other key foreign markets; • consumer spending patterns in our key markets; • currency and interest rate fluctuations; • international events and circumstances such as wars, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and political instability; and • changes in legal regimes and governmental regulations, such as licensing and approvals, taxation, duties and tariffs, in key markets and abroad. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and the global economy has continued to face new challenges. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including the United States. For example, in 2013, the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States announced the tapering of its bond-buying program which led to a high degree of volatility in equity markets and substantial devaluations in the currencies of many emerging economies, including markets where we operate. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa and over the possibility of international hostilities over Ukraine, which have resulted in volatility in oil prices and other markets. Recently there have been concerns over instability in Thailand due to significant anti-government protests which have been ongoing since 2013 and have resulted in the imposition of martial law and a change in government. There have also been a number of major anti-government protests in Turkey in late 2013 and early 2014. Economic conditions in the countries where we operate are sensitive to global economic conditions, as well as changes in domestic economic and political policies and the expected or perceived overall economic growth rate in emerging markets. The Malaysian Ringgit is subject to exchange rate fluctuations. BNM has, in the past, intervened in the foreign exchange market to stabilize the Malaysian Ringgit, and instituted a fixed exchange rate of MYR3.80 to $1.00 on September 2, 1998. Subsequently, on July 21, 2005, BNM adopted a managed float system which benchmarked the Malaysian Ringgit to a currency basket to ensure that the Malaysian Ringgit remains close to its fair value. As of December 31, 2014, the closing exchange rate was MYR3.4950 to $1.00 and as of April 24, 2015, the closing exchange rate was MYR3.5820 to $1.00. However, there can be no assurance that BNM will, or would be able to, intervene in the foreign exchange market in the future or that any such intervention or fixed exchange rate would be effective in achieving BNM’s objectives. Fluctuations in the Malaysian Ringgit’s value against other currencies will create foreign currency translation gains or losses and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to communication and multimedia regulations. Our business depends on the performance and availability of our online platforms and services which are governed in Malaysia by various multimedia and communication regulations, guidelines, ministerial directions and other standards arising from the CMA, and the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission. MOL AccessPortal has registered for, and obtained, an applications service provider, or ASP, class license to provide messaging services. The ASP class license requires annual renewal and the application is currently an administrative one but there can be no assurance that this will remain the case. We cannot guarantee that other services provided by MOL AccessPortal, or our other Malaysian companies, that are currently exempt from licensing requirements or which do not currently require licensing may require licensing in the future. The implementation of new regulations or guidelines could require us to change the way we conduct our online business or the licenses that we require, incur new expenses or retain legal counsel or additional staff to ensure compliance with such regulations. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign exchange control policies in Malaysia and other countries where we operate. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us may be restricted by the foreign exchange control policies in the countries where we operate. For example, there are foreign exchange policies in Malaysia which support the monitoring of capital flows into and out of the country in order to preserve its financial and economic stability. The foreign exchange policies are administered by the Foreign Exchange Administration, an arm of BNM. The foreign exchange policies monitor and regulate both residents and non-residents. Under the current Foreign Exchange Administration rules issued by BNM, non-residents are free to repatriate any amount of funds from Malaysia in foreign currency other than the currency of Israel at any time (subject to limited exceptions), including capital, divestment proceeds, profits, dividends, rental, fees and interest arising from investment in Malaysia, subject to any withholding tax. In the event BNM or any other country where we operate introduces any restrictions in the future, we may be affected in our ability to repatriate dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries in Malaysia or in such other countries. Since we are a holding company and rely principally on dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries for our cash requirements, any restrictions on such dividends or other payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The exchange control law in Thailand provides that the outward remittance from Thailand of dividends or the proceeds of sale (including capital gain) from the transfer of shares after payment of the applicable Thai taxes, if any, may be made without the requirement to file a specified form to the relevant financial institution if the amount is less than $50,000 or the equivalent amount in relevant currency per remittance, provided that required documents and evidence of the particular transaction have been duly submitted to the relevant financial institution. Because the Bank of Thailand has a policy to not allow any person to bring Baht out of Thailand, with certain exemptions, dividends paid to a non-resident must be converted into foreign currency prior to the outward remittance from Thailand. If the amount is at least $50,000 or its equivalent in the relevant currency, a specified form must be submitted to the relevant financial institution together with required documents or evidence of the particular transaction. Turkey does not have foreign exchange control restrictions. Pursuant to Decree N.32 on Protection of Turkish Currency, importation of foreign currency to Turkey is free and residents in Turkey are allowed to accept payment in foreign currency from non-residents for the transactions that they conduct in Turkey in favor of such non-residents. Residents in Turkey and non-residents may freely transfer foreign currency abroad provided that they use banks as intermediaries and relevant reporting requirements are complied with. The Turkish Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine other establishments that are allowed to transfer foreign currency abroad. Our presence in Northern Cyprus, which is not an internationally recognized state, may place us at a disadvantage in transferring funds out of the country and where Turkey is used as intermediary, additional taxes may be levied. Furthermore, dividends from certain subsidiaries, including our subsidiaries in Thailand, Turkey and the Philippines, may be subject to local withholding tax. Risks Related to the ADSs The trading prices of the ADSs have been and are likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of the ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or deteriorating financial results of other similarly situated companies that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these companies’ securities after their offerings, including companies in the internet, online payment and online and mobile gaming industries, may affect the attitudes of investors toward such companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of the ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting or other practices at other Malaysian or Southeast Asian companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Malaysian or Southeast Asian companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in such practices. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to our operating performance, such as the large decline in share prices in the United States and other jurisdictions in late 2008, early 2009, the third quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2012, which may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the ADSs. 30 Table of Contents In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for the ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in the number of our users; • fluctuations in our operating metrics; • failure on our part to realize monetization opportunities as expected; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; • detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; • regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; and • potential litigation or regulatory investigations. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which the ADSs will trade. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. We are involved in class action suits, which could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. See “Risk Factors – Pending class action litigation may expose us to significant liabilities, result in negative publicity and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prices of our ADSs.” Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have granted employee share options and other share-based awards. We will recognize any share-based compensation expenses in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS. Any additional grant of employee share options and other share-based awards in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. In September 2014 we adopted the MOL Global, Inc. 2014 Share Incentive Plan for the purpose of granting share-based compensation awards, in an aggregate amount of up to 10% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, to our employees, directors and consultants to incentivize their performance and align their interests with ours. Under the plan, we may grant awards representing up to 6,001,940 ordinary shares, subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the plan. As of December 31, 2014, options to purchase a total of 2,780,630 ordinary shares (excluding options to purchase 278,795 ordinary shares which have been forfeited) had been granted under the plan. In 2014, a total of 266,974 restricted share units were awarded and subsequently forfeited. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded MYR8.1 million, in share-based compensation expenses for those options to purchase ordinary shares that are expected to vest over the requisite service period. See Item 6.B. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees – Compensation – Employee Stock Option Plan.” As a result of these grants and potential future grants, we expect to continue to incur significant share-based compensation expenses in the future. The amount of these expenses is based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We account for compensation costs for all share options using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS. The expenses associated with share-based compensation will decrease our profitability, perhaps materially, and the additional securities issued under share-based compensation plans will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, including holders of the ADSs. However, if we limit the scope of our share-based compensation plan, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel who expect to be compensated by options. In March 2015, our board of directors resolved to suspend the MOL Global, Inc. Share Incentive Plan with immediate effect. The plan will be re-considered in the future based on the trading price of our ADSs and general market conditions. We expect to recognize share-based compensation expenses with respect to options that will expire within five years following the date of the applicable award. The fair value determined at the grant date will continue to be expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options. 31 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act and have taken, and expect to continue to take, advantage of certain reduced reporting requirements. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, most significantly, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for so long as we are an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion; (b) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material non-public information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, we have and intend to continue to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ. Press releases relating to financial results and material events are also furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC is less extensive and less timely as compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by United States domestic issuers. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding the ADSs, the market price for the ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for the ADSs will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade the ADSs, the market price for the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for the ADSs to decline. The sale or availability for sale, or perceived sale or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of the ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of the ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. There were 13,500,000 ADSs (equivalent to 13,500,000 ordinary shares) outstanding as of December 31, 2014, including 1,137,789 ADSs that we repurchased in December 2014 and are held in treasury. The ADSs are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and shares held by our existing shareholders may also be sold in the public market subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and the applicable lock-up agreements. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of the ADSs. 32 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are registered under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company limited by shares incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2013 Revision) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the common law of England, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies like us have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our existing articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands differ significantly from requirements for companies incorporated in other jurisdictions such as the United States. Currently, we do not plan to rely on home country practice with respect to any corporate governance matter. However, if we choose to follow home country practice in the future, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would under rules and regulations applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or major shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. For a discussion of significant differences between the provisions of the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the United States and their shareholders, see “Description of Share Capital—Differences in Corporate Law.” Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in our home jurisdiction. We are a Cayman Islands company and a substantial majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. A significant percentage of our current operations are conducted in Malaysia and other Southeast Asian countries. In addition, a significant majority of our current directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands, Malaysia and other jurisdictions where we operate may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There are uncertainties as to whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us, judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and Malaysia, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” 33 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your ordinary shares. As a holder of ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association which is currently in effect, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 7 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its merchants are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not give voting instructions, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if we timely ask for voting instructions but the depositary does not receive your instructions by the date it sets, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not give voting instructions, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of the ADSs for return on your investment. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in the ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiary, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in the ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of the ADSs. There is no guarantee that the ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in the ADSs. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. To the extent that we decide to pay a dividend or make other distributions in the future, the depositary has agreed to pay to you such cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying the ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of the ADSs. 34 Table of Contents You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays in the United States. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register the transfers of the ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think that it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. As a result, you may be unable to transfer your ADSs when you wish to. We incur various costs as a result of being a public company and these costs will increase after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company. We have recently become a public company and expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and NASDAQ, impose various requirements on the corporate governance practices of public companies. As a company with less than $1.0 billion in revenues for our last fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include exemption from the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. After we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we were required to increase the number of independent directors and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. Also, as a result of operating as a public company it is generally more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. It may also be more difficult for us to find qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers in the future. We cannot predict or estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We may be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares. Our status as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year will depend on the composition of our income and assets and upon the value of our assets, which may be determined based, in part, on the market price of the ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time. Based on our current and expected income and asset composition and projections as to the value of our assets, which are based on the market price of our ADSs, we do not expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. While we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs (which may be volatile) may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets for that year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets. Under circumstances where gross income from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our gross income from activities that produce non-passive income or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. 35 Table of Contents If we were to be or become a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we are a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds the ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC with respect to that U.S. Holder for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds the ADSs or our ordinary shares. You are urged to consult your tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax considerations relating to holding and disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become a PFIC. For more information see Item 10.3. “Additional Information – Taxation.” 