D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our partnership units. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for distributions or the trading price of our common units. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2625 per unit, or $1.05 per unit per year, which requires us to have available cash of approximately $10,781,250 per quarter, or $43,125,000 per year, based on the number of common, subordinated and general partner units outstanding. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common, subordinated and general partner units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the volumes of refined petroleum products and crude oil we handle; 4 Table of Contents • the terminaling services fees with respect to volumes that we handle; • damage to pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; • planned or unplanned shutdowns of the refineries and industrial production facilities owned by or supplying our customers; • prevailing economic and market conditions; • difficulties in collecting our receivables because of credit or financial problems of customers; • the effects of new or expanded health, environmental and safety regulations; • governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation of the industries in which we operate; • changes in tax laws; • weather conditions; and • force majeure. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in debt agreements to which we are a party; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common, subordinated and general partner units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net earnings. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Our business would be adversely affected if the operations of our customers experienced significant interruptions. In certain circumstances, the obligations of many of our key customers under their terminaling services agreements may be reduced, suspended or terminated, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the uninterrupted operations of certain facilities owned or operated by third parties, such as the pipelines, barges and retail fuel distribution assets, as well as refineries and other production facilities that produce products we handle. Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities or to or from our customers for any reason would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and ability to make 5 Table of Contents distributions to our unitholders. Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned or operated by our customers and their suppliers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control, such as: • catastrophic events, including hurricanes and floods; • explosion, breakage, accidents to machinery, storage tanks or facilities; • environmental remediation; • labor difficulties; and • disruptions in the supply of products to or from our facilities, including the failure of third party pipelines or other facilities. Additionally, terrorist attacks and acts of sabotage could target oil and gas production facilities, refineries, processing plants, terminals and other infrastructure facilities. Our terminaling services agreements with many of our key customers provide that, if any of a number of events occur, including certain of those events described above, which we refer to as events of force majeure, and the event significantly delays or renders performance impossible with respect to a facility, usually for a specified minimum period of days, our customer’s obligations would be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a customer’s fixed terminaling services fees may be reduced or suspended, even if we are contractually restricted from recontracting out the storage space in question during such force majeure period, or the contract may be subject to termination. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured against such risks. As a result, our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our financial results depend on the demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil, and general economic downturns could result in lower demand for these products for a sustained period of time. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and natural gas. Any sustained decrease in demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil in the markets served by our terminals could result in a reduction in storage usage in our terminals, which would reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type, an adverse development in this business could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets. Our financial results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within certain regions. If economic and market conditions are uncertain or adverse conditions exist, spread or deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if global events were to change international trade patterns and shift the global flow of oil to other regions of the world, our terminals may no longer be strategically located. Large independent terminal operators are strategically located near major supply and demand hubs which naturally form along export routes of a supply-source or in proximity to demand centers. If macroeconomic events, such as a severe economic recession or depression, were to shift the global flow of oil to other regions of the world and away from the regions we currently service, our terminals may not be optimally positioned to service the new centers. Such shifts could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Other factors that could lead to a sustained decrease in market demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil include: • the level of worldwide oil and gas production and any disruption of those supplies; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline and diesel; • a sustained increase in the market price of crude oil or shortage of refining capacity that leads to higher refined petroleum product prices; 6 Table of Contents • an increase in automotive engine fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or technological advances by manufacturers; and • the increased use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Any decrease in supply and marketing activities may result in reduced storage volumes at our terminal facilities, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to renew or extend the terminaling services agreements we have with our customers, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be reduced. As of December 31, 2014, after giving effect to VTTI’s guarantee pursuant to the omnibus agreement entered into at the time of our IPO of the rates of certain capacity currently contracted by Vitol for a specified period of time after the Vitol terminaling services agreements expire, the average remaining tenor of our terminaling services agreements was more than four years. If any one or more of our key customers does not renew or extend its terminaling services agreement after expiration of the applicable commitment, or if we are unable to renew or extend such agreement at comparable or higher pricing, our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs if modifications to our terminals are required by a new or renegotiated terminal services agreement. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of VTTI and our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by VTTI or our key customers could adversely affect our financial results and cash available for distribution. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by VTTI and our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use the storage capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, some of our customers may have material financial and liquidity issues or may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger, better capitalized companies. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement that we entered into in connection with the our IPO, VTTI has guaranteed the rates of certain capacity currently contracted by Vitol for a specified period of time after the Vitol terminaling services agreements expire. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by VTTI or any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We depend on Vitol and a relatively limited number of our other key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers, including Vitol. Our top five customers accounted for 92% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Vitol individually accounted for 77% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Because of Vitol’s position as a major customer of our business, events which adversely affect Vitol’s creditworthiness may, in particular, adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire additional terminals from VTTI pursuant to the rights of first offer granted to us by VTTI pursuant to the omnibus agreement we entered into at the time of the IPO or otherwise, or if we enter into new or expanded agreements, the percentage of our revenue generated by Vitol may increase and our exposure to these risks would increase. Further, if Vitol does not renew certain terminaling services agreements, at the end of any such agreement’s duration, VTTI will either contract a third-party customer to replace Vitol’s commitments at that terminal or reimburse us for any losses resulting from Vitol’s expiring contract for a certain period. If such were to occur, we would then rely on VTTI for an increased percentage of our revenue. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes, floods or severe storms, for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are currently located in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and the United States and are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes, floods or severe storms, which have historically impacted such regions with some regularity. We may also be affected by factors such as other adverse weather, accidents, fires, 7 Table of Contents explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures, disruptions in supply infrastructure or logistics and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations are exposed to other potential natural disasters, including tornadoes, storms, floods and earthquakes. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In addition sub-limits have been imposed for certain risks. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Changing volatility in energy prices, certain market structures (including backwardated markets), changing specifications or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in crude oil or refined petroleum products, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage services. Because we do not own any of the crude oil or refined petroleum products that we handle and do not engage in the trading of refined petroleum products or crude oil, we have minimal direct exposure to risks associated with fluctuating commodity prices. These risks do, however, indirectly influence our activities and results of operations over the long term. Petroleum product prices may be in contango (future prices higher than current prices) or backwardated (future prices lower than current prices) depending on market expectations for future supply and demand. In either situation, our customers regularly move products through our terminals. However, if the prices of refined products and crude oil become relatively stable, the market remains in a prolonged backwardated state, or if federal or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing those commodities, demand for our terminaling services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to renew contracts for our terminaling services or be forced to reduce the rates we charge for our terminaling services, either of which would reduce the amount of cash we generate. Further, changes in product specifications could reduce the need for our customers to contract for terminal services. Competition from other terminals that are able to supply our customers with comparable storage capacity at a lower price could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with terminal and storage companies, including major integrated oil companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience that may be able to supply our customers with terminaling services on a more competitive basis. Our ability to compete could be harmed by factors we cannot control, including: • our competitors’ construction of new assets or redeployment of existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve; • the perception that another company may provide better service; and • the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to our customers’ operations. Any combination of these factors could result in our customers utilizing the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services, or our being required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our expansion of existing assets and construction or acquisition of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. A part of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct or acquire additional assets. The construction or acquisition of a new terminal, or the expansion of an existing terminal, such as by increasing storage capacity or otherwise, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects. As a result, we may construct or acquire new facilities that are not able to attract enough customers to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 8 Table of Contents If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. We may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third party pipelines to provide destinations for increased storage services. Even if we receive sufficient multi-year contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects and we complete our construction projects as planned, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. For instance, if we build a new terminal, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. A part of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions over time that result in an increase in our cash available for distribution per unit. If we are unable to make acquisitions from third parties or VTTI because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or we are outbid by competitors, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and newly acquired assets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We have entered into an omnibus agreement with VTTI that exposes us to various risks and uncertainties. In connection with our IPO, we entered into an omnibus agreement with VTTI. Pursuant to this agreement, we have a right of first offer to purchase the remaining 64.0% of the profit shares of VTTI Operating and other currently owned and future terminaling and related energy infrastructure assets held by VTTI, which assets we refer to as our “ROFO Assets”, if VTTI decides to sell them. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions pursuant to this right will depend upon, among other things, VTTI’s willingness to offer a subject asset for sale and obtain any necessary consents, the determination that the asset is suitable for our business at that particular time, our ability to agree on a mutually acceptable price, our ability to negotiate an acceptable purchase agreement and terminal services agreement with respect to the asset and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and VTTI is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any ROFO Assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. 9 Table of Contents Also pursuant to the omnibus agreement, VTTI has guaranteed the rates of certain capacity currently contracted by Vitol for a specified period of time after the Vitol terminaling services agreements expire, resulting in an overall weighted average contract tenor as of December 31, 2014, of more than four years. In addition, VTTI has agreed, for a period of five years from the closing of our IPO, to make us whole, in certain circumstances, for certain environmental liabilities, tax liabilities and defects in title to the assets contributed to us by VTTI at the time of the IPO. If VTTI is unable or unwilling to perform such guarantee or indemnification, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced. Our operations are subject to national and state laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, and we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications. Various national and state agencies prescribe specific product quality specifications for refined products, including vapor pressure, sulfur content, ethanol content and biodiesel content. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our product volumes at our terminals, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, mandated increases in use of renewable fuels could require the construction of additional storage and blending equipment. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Violations of product quality laws attributable to our operations could subject us to significant fines and penalties as well as negative publicity. In addition, changes in the quality of the products we receive on our pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. We have a responsibility to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. Off-specification product distributed for public use, even if not a violation of specific product quality laws, could result in poor engine performance or even engine damage. This type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages caused by the off-specification fuel or could result in negative publicity, impacting our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Revenues we generate from excess throughput and ancillary fees vary based upon the product volume handled at our terminals and the activity levels of our customers. Any short- or long-term decrease in the demand for the refined petroleum products and crude oil we handle, or any interruptions to the operations of certain of our customers, could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we generated 10% of our revenues, respectively, from excess throughput, ancillary fees and other miscellaneous revenue. Our storage customers pay us excess throughput fees to receive product volume on their behalf that exceeds the base storage services contemplated in their agreed upon monthly storage services fee. Our storage customers pay us ancillary fees for services such as mixing, blending and heating petroleum products and transferring products between our tanks or to rail or truck. Other miscellaneous revenue includes such items as payments from local authorities as compensation for agreed infrastructure investments. The revenues we generate from excess throughput and ancillary fees vary based upon the product volume accepted at or withdrawn from our terminals and the activity levels of our customers. Our customers are not obligated to pay us any excess throughput fees unless we move product volume across our terminals or pipelines on their behalf. If one or more of our customers were to slow or suspend its operations, or otherwise experience a decrease in demand for our services, our revenues under our agreements with such customers would be reduced or suspended, resulting in a decrease in the revenues we generate. Any reduction in the capability of our customers to obtain access to ships, barges, third party pipelines or other transportation facilities, or to continue utilizing them at current costs, could cause a reduction of volumes transported through our terminals. Many users of our terminals are dependent upon third party shipping and barge operations, pipelines or other transportation providers to receive and deliver refined petroleum products and crude oil. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of these modes of transportation would result in reduced volumes transported through our terminals. Similarly, increased demand for these services could result in reduced allocations to our existing customers, which also could reduce volumes transported through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. In addition, if the costs to us or our storage service customers to transport crude oil or refined products significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. Any such increases in cost, interruptions or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Many of our terminal and storage assets have been in service for many years, which could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our terminal and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many years. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which are complex and frequently changing. Our operations involve the transport and storage of refined petroleum products and crude oil and are subject to international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the gathering, storage, handling and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, management and disposal of wastes, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Compliance with this complex array of international, federal, state, and local laws and implementing regulations is difficult and may require significant capital expenditures and operating costs to mitigate or prevent pollution. Moreover, in the ordinary course of business, accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment and neighboring areas may occur, for which we may incur substantial liabilities to investigate and remediate. Failure to comply with applicable environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, permit revocations, and injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health, and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent and in certain regions, such as the United States and Europe, our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny. The cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. These expenditures or costs for environmental, health, and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that has or will occur at our facilities. Many of our terminal facilities have been used for transportation, storage and distribution of refined petroleum products and crude oil for a number of years. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons and wastes from time to time may have been spilled or released on or under the terminal properties. In addition, certain of our terminal properties were previously owned and operated by other parties and those parties from time to time also may have spilled or released hydrocarbons or wastes. Our terminal properties are subject to international, federal, state and local laws that impose investigatory and remedial obligations, some of which are joint and several or strict liability obligations without regard to fault, to address and prevent environmental contamination. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to any soil and groundwater contamination that occurs on our properties, even if the contamination was caused by prior owners and operators of our facilities. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our storage services. Emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, have been linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our services and the demand for our services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns). In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or the Kyoto Protocol, entered into force. Many of the countries in which we do business (but not the United States) ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and we have been subject to its requirements, particularly in the European Union. The first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol ended in 2012, but it was nominally extended past its expiration date with a requirement for a new legal construct to be put into place by 2015. To that end, the framework for a 11 Table of Contents new international agreement is being negotiated. In addition, in November 2014, President Obama announced that the United States would seek to cut net greenhouse gas emissions 26-28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 in return for China’s commitment to seek to peak emissions around 2030, with concurrent increases in renewable energy. On March 31, 2015, the United States formally submitted its proposal to the United Nations. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would impact our business, any future international or federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products and crude oil we store. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of GHGs could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged for our services, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. Many scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate change that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. Debt that we, VTTI or our subsidiaries incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. VTTI Operating entered into a €500 million revolving credit facility, the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility, in connection with our IPO, and exercised its accordion feature to expand the facility to €580 million in March 2015. Further, a subsidiary of VTTI Operating, ATT Tanjung Bin Sdn. Bhd., or ATB, entered into a related party facility agreement, the ATB Phase 2 Facility, with VTTI B.V. which provides a maximum borrowing under the facility of $95.0 million, in connection with the construction of phase 2 of our Johore terminal. We refer to the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility and the ATB Phase 2 Facility as our Credit Facilities. Our future level of debt and the future level of debt of VTTI or our subsidiaries could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Restrictions in our Credit Facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our Credit Facilities could limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; • abandon ongoing capital expenditures; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; 12 Table of Contents • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Due to its ownership and control of our general partner, VTTI has the ability to prevent VTTI Operating and us from taking actions that would cause VTTI to violate any covenants in, or otherwise to be in default under VTTI’s $270.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, or the VTTI Revolving Credit Facility. In deciding whether to prevent VTTI Operating or us from taking any such action, VTTI has no fiduciary duty to us or our unitholders. Moreover, if we desire to take any action, to the extent such action would not be permitted under the VTTI Revolving Credit Facility, VTTI would be required to seek the consent of the lenders under its revolving credit facility. VTTI’s compliance with the covenants in its revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to undertake certain actions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including borrowing under the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility to finance operations or expansions or to distribute cash to our unitholders. Any debt instruments that VTTI or any of its affiliates enter into in the future, including any amendments to our Credit Facilities, may include additional or more restrictive limitations that may impact our ability to conduct our business. These additional restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities. The VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility and the VTTI Revolving Credit Facility contain covenants requiring the borrowers thereunder to maintain certain financial ratios. Their ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that they will meet those ratios and tests. In addition, the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility and the VTTI Revolving Credit Facility contain events of default customary for transactions of this nature, including: • failure to make payments; • failure to comply with covenants and financial ratios; • institution of insolvency or similar proceedings; and • occurrence of a change of control. Also, the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility and the VTTI Revolving Credit Facility have default provisions that apply to any other material indebtedness that we may have. The provisions of our Credit Facilities may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our Credit Facilities could result in a default or an event of default that could enable its lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. Such event of default would also permit lenders to foreclose on our assets serving as collateral for the obligations under our Credit Facilities. If the payment of the debt is accelerated, its assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full. As a result, our results of operations and, therefore, our ability to distribute cash to unitholders, could be materially and adversely affected, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our Credit Facilities or future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 13 Table of Contents The implementation of derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our and our customers’ ability to hedge business risks. Certain countries (e.g., the G-20 group of industrialized nations) have adopted or are considering adopting legislation that regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. For example, in the United States the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations relating to, among other things, swaps and options, participants in the derivatives markets, clearing, margining and trading of swaps and recordkeeping and reporting of swap transactions. In general, the Dodd-Frank Act subjects swap transactions and participants to greater regulation and supervision by the CFTC and the SEC and will require many swaps to be cleared through a CFTC- or SEC-registered clearing facility and executed on a designated contract market (DCM) or swap execution facility (SEF), unless an exception, such as the end-user exception, applies. While many of the U.S. regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act are already in effect, the implementation process is still ongoing, and we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the regulations on our business. As the CFTC further designates swap contracts as required to be cleared and traded on a trading facility, the utility of an end-user exception will become even more important. Our ability or inability to rely on the end-user exception may change the profitability of our trades or the efficiency of our hedging. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is finalizing its final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, although certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits provided that various conditions are satisfied. Once finalized, the position limits rule and its companion rule on aggregation may have an impact on our ability to hedge our exposure to certain enumerated commodities. The CFTC, the SEC and U.S. Prudential regulators are finalizing rules and regulations on margining and providing collateral for uncleared swaps in the over the counter (OTC) markets, coupled with the rules on capital for swap dealers. The intention behind these regulations is to make it economically indifferent for a participant in commodities markets to trade a futures contract on a DCM, a cleared swap or an option on a SEF or to enter into an OTC swap with a swap dealer or another counterparty because each of these contracts will be subject to margining either by a clearing house or a swap counterparty. Although Congress in 2015 enacted certain exemptions to the margining requirement for the end-users, it is uncertain how the CFTC will implement these margining requirements in the market and whether swap dealers will be penalized by regulators with higher capital charges for entering into uncleared swaps and options; as a result, it is difficult to estimate future costs of compliance with these regulations. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is also directed generally to prevent price manipulation and fraud in the following two markets: (a) physical commodities traded in interstate commerce, including physical energy and other commodities, as well as (b) financial instruments, such as futures, options and swaps. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has adopted additional anti-market manipulation, anti-fraud and disruptive trading practices regulations that prohibit, among other things, fraud and price manipulation in the physical commodities, futures, options and swaps markets. The CFTC is developing its enforcement program under its new authorities under the Dodd Frank Act and at this time it is impossible to quantify the risks of potential enforcement action from the CFTC. Should we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to CFTC enforcement action and material penalties, and sanctions. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” To further define the term “swap,” the CFTC has issued several interpretations clarifying whether certain forwards with optionality will remain as forwards and generally exempt from the Dodd Frank restrictions or would qualify as options on commodities and therefore swaps. Once finalized, this interpretation may have an impact on our ability to enter into certain forwards. Legislation and regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of counterparties available to us or our customers. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, the European Union and other foreign regulators have adopted and are implementing local reforms generally comparable with the reforms under the Dodd-Frank Act. Implementation and enforcement of these regulatory provisions may reduce our ability to hedge our market risks with non-U.S. counterparties and may make our transactions involving cross-border swaps more expensive and burdensome. Additionally, the lack of regulatory equivalency across jurisdictions may increase compliance costs and make it more difficult to satisfy our regulatory obligations. 14 Table of Contents Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our international operations involve additional risks, which could adversely affect our business. As a result of our international operations, we may be exposed to economic, political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, armed hostilities, war and civil disturbances; • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • political unrest; • foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • the inability to repatriate income or capital; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers; • U.S. and foreign sanctions or trade embargoes; • regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; • changing taxation policies, including confiscatory taxation; • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; and • governmental corruption. Any disruption caused by these factors could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Fluctuations in exchange rates or exchange controls could result in losses to us. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates due to revenues being received and operating expenses paid in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, we may experience currency exchange losses or a reduced amount of cash available for distribution if we have not hedged our exposure to a foreign currency, or if revenues are received in currencies that are not readily convertible. We may also be unable to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over the repatriation of income or capital or controls over currency exchange. We are exposed with respect to our terminals in Europe, which receive their revenue in Euro. Although we are currently offsetting a portion of our Euro revenues with our operating costs denominated in Euro and we currently have in place a Euro to U.S. Dollar cash flow hedging program, if, in the future, we are required to receive a greater portion of our 15 Table of Contents revenues in Euro, we may be unable to offset such revenue with operating expenses owed in Euro and, as a result, may incur substantial foreign exchange losses. We also have operating expenses in other currencies, such as the Malaysian Ringgit and the UAE Dirham. Exchanges at market rates may result in substantial foreign exchange losses. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. GAAP, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods. These gains and losses could have a material impact on our operating results. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other similar statutes in the countries in which we operate could result in fines, criminal penalties, contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We and our affiliates currently operate our terminals in a number of countries throughout the world, including some with developing economies. Also, the existence of state or government-owned oil-related enterprises puts us in contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” or “foreign public officials” under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the FCPA, and the Bribery Act 2010 of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, or the U.K. Bribery Act, respectively. We are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, as well as recordkeeping and internal accounting controls, which are consistent and in full compliance with the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, VTTI, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of VTTI’s operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations would be expensive and consume significant time and attention of our senior management. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we may utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. All of these activities involve interaction by our agents with non-U.S. government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non-U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If our business activities involve countries, entities and individuals that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, we could be subject to enforcement action and our reputation and the market for our common units could be adversely affected. U.S. sanctions have been tightened in recent years to target the activities of non-U.S. companies, such as us. In particular, sanctions against Iran have been significantly expanded. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the prohibitions applicable to non-U.S. companies, such as us, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. On August 10, 2012, the U.S. signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which places further restrictions on the ability of non-U.S. companies to do business or trade with Iran and Syria. Perhaps the most significant provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that prohibitions in the existing Iran sanctions applicable to U.S. persons will now apply to any foreign entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person (essentially making the U.S. sanctions against Iran as expansive as U.S. sanctions against Cuba). However, we do not believe this provision is applicable to us, as we are primarily owned and controlled by non-U.S. persons. The other major provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 if the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain activities involving Iran or other sanctioned entities during the timeframe covered by the report. The disclosure must describe the nature and extent of the activity in detail and the SEC will publish the disclosure on its website. For certain disclosed activities, the President must then initiate an investigation and determine whether sanctions on the issuer or its 16 Table of Contents affiliate will be imposed. Such negative publicity and the possibility that sanctions could be imposed would present a risk for any issuer that is knowingly engaged in disclosable conduct or that has an affiliate that is knowingly engaged in such conduct. At this time, we are not aware of activity conducted by ourselves, VTTI or any affiliate of VTTI that would trigger an SEC disclosure requirement, although if we or any of our affiliates engage in any of these activities, we, as an issuer, would be required to make a disclosure under the Iran Threat Reduction Act. In addition to the sanctions against Iran, U.S. law continues to restrict U.S. owned or controlled entities from doing business with Cuba and various U.S. sanctions have certain other extraterritorial effects that need to be considered by non-U.S. companies. Moreover, any U.S. persons who serve as officers, directors or employees of us would be fully subject to U.S. sanctions. It should also be noted that other governments are more frequently implementing versions of U.S. sanctions. We do not currently have any contracts or plans to initiate any contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, from time to time, we may enter into contracts with customers, including affiliates, who have operations in countries or who contract with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism in cases where entering into such customer contracts would not violate U.S. law. This could negatively affect our ability to obtain investors, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common units. As stated above, we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance. However, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our common units. Investor perception of the value of our common units may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Tax liabilities associated with indirect taxes on the products we service could result in losses to us. In the majority of jurisdictions in which we operate, the refined petroleum products and crude oil that we store for our customers are subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as “indirect taxes”, including import duties, excise duties, environmental levies and sales or value-added taxes. In these jurisdictions, we may be found jointly liable for taxes arising from non-compliance with reporting or record keeping requirements relating to these indirect taxes. Where feasible, we have obtained permits from the relevant customs or tax authorities to suspend such duties and taxes and, under the general terms and conditions of our terminaling services agreements, we are typically entitled to pass these costs on to our customers. Tax liabilities may still occur, however, and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operation and cash flow. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or surrounding areas could adversely affect our business. Our facilities may be subject to terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries, or terminals could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates, including VTTI, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Our indirect parent, VTTI, owns a 49.0% limited partner interest in us, indirectly owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors and officers of our general partner, some of whom are also directors and officers of VTTI. Although the directors and officers of our general partner have a duty to manage us in a manner that they subjectively believe is in our best interests, they also have a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to VTTI. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between VTTI and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of VTTI over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as VTTI, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its duties to our unitholders; 17 Table of Contents • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires VTTI to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of VTTI have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of their interestholders. VTTI may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets; • our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Specifically, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or refrains from transferring its units or general partner interest or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership; • our general partner and our directors have limited their liabilities and restricted their fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders, and, as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner and our directors, all as set forth in the partnership agreement; • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $32.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units and our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of such right; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our general partner’s and VTTI’s obligations under the omnibus agreement; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 18 Table of Contents Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or the VTTI Operating Revolving Credit Facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units as to distribution or liquidation, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash available to distribute to our unitholders. Actions taken by our general partner may affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders or accelerate the right to convert subordinated units. The amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders is affected by decisions of our general partner regarding such matters as: • the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales; • cash expenditures; • borrowings; • the issuance of additional units; and • the creation, reduction or increase of reserves in any quarter. Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or as an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units. In addition, our general partner may use an amount, equal to $32.0 million, which would not otherwise constitute available cash from operating surplus, in order to permit the payment of cash distributions on its affiliates’ units and our general partner’s incentive distribution rights. All of these actions may affect the amount of cash distributed to our unitholders and our general partner and may facilitate the conversion of subordinated units into common units. 19 Table of Contents In addition, borrowings by us and our affiliates do not constitute a breach of any duty owed by our general partner to our unitholders, including borrowings that have the purpose or effect of: • enabling our general partner or its affiliates to receive distributions on any subordinated units held by them; or • accelerating the expiration of the subordination period. For example, in the event we have not generated sufficient cash from our operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and our subordinated units, our partnership agreement permits us to borrow working capital funds, which would enable us to make this distribution on all outstanding units. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s and our directors’ fiduciary duties to holders of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the standards to which our general partner and directors would otherwise be held by Marshall Islands law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Where our partnership agreement permits, our general partner may consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and in such cases it has no fiduciary duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or our unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its board of directors, which are appointed by VTTI. Specifically, pursuant to our partnership agreement, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or refrains from transferring its units or general partner interest or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership; • provides that our general partner and our directors are entitled to make other decisions they subjectively believe are in our best interests; • provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest that are approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors or by a vote of a majority of the outstanding common units (excluding common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates) shall be deemed approved by all partners and shall not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement; and • provides that neither our general partner nor our officers or our directors will be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or our officers or directors or those other persons engaged in actual fraud or willful misconduct. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. VTTI and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including VTTI, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. VTTI currently holds interests in other terminals and may make investments in, develop or purchase additional terminals. These investments and acquisitions may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. Therefore, VTTI may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own interests in entities that compete with us. 20 Table of Contents Our general partner, as the initial owner of our incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner, as the initial owner of our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and payments have been paid on incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive whole fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed the adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on the same percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution as the current target distribution levels. If the owners of a majority of the incentive distribution rights elect to reset the target distribution levels, the owners of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units which would have entitled them to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in such prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to the owners of the incentive distribution rights on their respective incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the owners of the incentive distribution rights would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that the owners of the incentive distribution rights could exercise this reset election at a time when they are experiencing, or expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions they receive related to their respective incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to the owners of the incentive distribution rights in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by VTTI, as a result of its owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we do not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all our outstanding units, including any common and subordinated units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. VTTI indirectly owns 51.0% of our outstanding units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of our subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. 21 Table of Contents Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. The incentive distribution rights held by our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its other direct or indirect interests in us, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if our general partner had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of VTTI selling or contributing additional terminaling assets to us, as VTTI would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. During the subordination period, the common units will have the right to receive distributions of available cash from operating surplus in an amount equal to the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2625 per unit, plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution on the common units from prior quarters, before any distributions of available cash from operating surplus may be made on the subordinated units. Distribution arrearages do not accrue on the 22 Table of Contents subordinated units. The purpose of the subordinated units is to increase the likelihood that during the subordination period there will be available cash from operating surplus to be distributed on the common units. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Fees and cost reimbursements, which VTTI Services determines pursuant to the terms of the secondment agreement, are payable regardless of our profitability and reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Our general partner’s executive officers are employed by VTTI Services and are made available to VTTI MLP Holdings Ltd, or VTTI Holdings, our wholly-owned subsidiary, pursuant to the terms of a secondment agreement that VTTI Services entered into with VTTI Holdings at the time of our IPO. Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the secondment agreement, VTTI Holdings reimburses VTTI Services for the costs that it incurs in providing compensation and benefits to its employees who are made available to VTTI Holdings, including the executive officers of our general partner, with a cost markup of 5% applied to the salaries of back-office staff, 10% applied to the salaries of executive officers and 12.5% applied to executive officer bonuses. The fees and expenses payable pursuant to the secondment agreement are payable without regard to our business, results of operation and financial condition. The payment of fees to and the reimbursement of expenses of VTTI Services could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner, and there are no limits on the amount that we may be required to pay. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including VTTI, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. Under our partnership agreement, there is no limit on the fees and expense reimbursements we may be required to pay our general partner. Our general partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by VTTI) after the subordination period has ended. 23 Table of Contents Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made non-recourse to the general partner. Our limited partnership is organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and we conduct business in other jurisdictions. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a jurisdiction but had not complied with that particular jurisdiction’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under the Marshall Islands Limited Partnership Act, or the Marshall Islands Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities, other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities for which the recourse of creditors is limited to specified property of ours, to exceed the fair value of our assets, except that the fair value of property that is subject to a liability for which the recourse of creditors is limited will be included in our assets only to the extent that the fair value of that property exceeds that liability. Marshall Islands law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Marshall Islands law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the assignee at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner, which is controlled by VTTI, has full power and authority to do all things, other than those items that require unitholder approval or with respect to which our general partner has sought conflicts committee approval, on such terms as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to conduct our business, including, but not limited to, the following: • the making of any expenditures, the lending or borrowing of money, the assumption or guarantee of or other contracting for, indebtedness and other liabilities, the issuance of evidences of indebtedness, including indebtedness that is convertible into our securities, and the incurring of any other obligations; • the purchase, sale or other acquisition or disposition of our securities, or the issuance of additional options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to our securities; • the acquisition, disposition, mortgage, pledge, encumbrance, hypothecation or exchange of any or all of our assets; • the negotiation, execution and performance of any contracts, conveyances or other instruments; • the distribution of our cash; • the selection and dismissal of employees and agents, outside attorneys, accountants, consultants and contractors and the determination of their compensation and other terms of employment or hiring; • the maintenance of insurance for our benefit and the benefit of our partners; • the formation of, or acquisition of an interest in, the contribution of property to, and the making of loans to, any limited or general partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company or other entity; 24 Table of Contents • the control of any matters affecting our rights and obligations, including the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity, otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation, arbitration or mediation, the incurring of legal expense and the settlement of claims and litigation; • the indemnification of any person against liabilities and contingencies to the extent permitted by law; • the making of tax, regulatory and other filings or the rendering of periodic or other reports to governmental or other agencies having jurisdiction over our business or assets; and • the entering into of agreements with any of its affiliates to render services to us or to itself in the discharge of its duties as our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner must act in “good faith” when making decisions on our behalf, and our partnership agreement further provides that in order for a determination to be made in “good faith”, our general partner must subjectively believe that the determination is in the best interests of our partnership. Contracts between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other hand, may not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations. Our partnership agreement allows our general partner to determine, in good faith, any amounts to pay itself or its affiliates for any services rendered to us. Our general partner may also enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of its affiliates on our behalf. Our general partner determines, in good faith, the terms of any arrangements or transactions entered into. Similarly, agreements, contracts or arrangements between us and our general partner and its affiliates that are entered into are not be required to be negotiated on an arm’s-length basis, although, in some circumstances, our general partner may determine that the conflicts committee may make a determination on our behalf with respect to such arrangements. Our general partner and its affiliates will have no obligation to permit us to use any facilities or assets of our general partner and its affiliates, except as may be provided in contracts entered into specifically for such use. There is no obligation of our general partner and its affiliates to enter into any contracts of this kind. Common unitholders will have no right to enforce obligations of our general partner and its affiliates under agreements with us. Any agreements between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other hand, will not grant to the unitholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of our general partner and its affiliates in our favor. Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for us have been retained by our general partner. Attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for us are selected by our general partner or our conflicts committee and may perform services for our general partner and its affiliates. We may retain separate counsel for ourselves or the holders of common units in the event of a conflict of interest between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us or the holders of common units, on the other, depending on the nature of the conflict. We do not intend to do so in most cases. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and do, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure and corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the same disclosure and procedural requirements as domestic U.S. registrants under the Exchange Act, and unitholders accordingly do not have access to such level of information. For instance, we are not required to prepare and file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from the proxy requirements under Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and we are not generally subject to Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material non-public information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Moreover, even if we were to lose our emerging growth company status, we would still be permitted to provide reduced disclosure on certain issues, including disclosing compensation information for our executive officers on an aggregate, rather than an individual, 25 Table of Contents basis because individual disclosure is not required under Marshall Islands law. We do, however, intend to furnish our unitholders with annual reports such as this one containing financial statements audited by our independent auditors and to make available to our unitholders quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year. We are also exempt from certain corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. Additionally, because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards, that apply to other public companies. We are classified as an emerging growth company. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging growth companies, including certain requirements relating to accounting standards. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer or (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can use the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933 for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This permits an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period and, as a result, we will adopt new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other companies. We may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years until the end of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of our IPO occurs, although certain circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of June 30 in any fiscal year before that time or if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three-year period before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of that date, or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. 26 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common units less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies”, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common units less attractive if we rely on this exemption. If some investors find our common units less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units, and the secondary market price of our common units may be more volatile. We have been organized as a limited partnership under the laws of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of partnership law. Our partnership affairs are governed by our partnership agreement and by the Marshall Islands Act. The provisions of the Marshall Islands Act resemble the limited partnership laws of a number of states in the United States, most notably Delaware. The Marshall Islands Act also provides that, with respect to the subject matter thereof, it is to be applied and construed to make it uniform with the laws of the State of Delaware and, so long as it does not conflict with the Marshall Islands Act or decisions of certain Marshall Islands courts, the non-statutory law (or case law) of the State of Delaware is adopted as the law of the Marshall Islands. There have been, however, few, if any, court cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the Marshall Islands Act, in contrast to Delaware, which has a fairly well-developed body of case law interpreting its limited partnership statute. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as the courts in Delaware. For example, the rights of our unitholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our general partner under Marshall Islands law are not as clearly established as under judicial precedent in existence in Delaware. As a result, unitholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our general partner and its officers and directors than would unitholders of a similarly organized limited partnership in the United States. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult for our unitholders to receive any recovery if we were to go bankrupt. We are a Marshall Islands limited partnership and have limited operations in the United States and maintain limited assets in the United States. Consequently, in the event of any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding involving us or any of our subsidiaries, bankruptcy laws other than those of the United States could apply. The Republic of the Marshall Islands does not have a bankruptcy statute or general statutory mechanism for insolvency proceedings. If we become a debtor under U.S. bankruptcy law, bankruptcy courts in the United States may seek to assert jurisdiction over all of our assets, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that we would become a debtor in the United States, or that a U.S. bankruptcy court would be entitled to, or accept, jurisdiction over such a bankruptcy case, or that courts in other countries that have jurisdiction over us and our operations would recognize a U.S. bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction if any other bankruptcy court would determine it had jurisdiction. These factors may delay or prevent us from entering bankruptcy in the United States and may affect the ability of our unitholders to receive any recovery following our bankruptcy. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands and located in the United Kingdom, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, are located in the United Kingdom and the substantial majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, our general partner is a Marshall Islands limited liability company, our directors and officers generally are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us. You may also have difficulty enforcing, both in and outside the United States, including in a Marshall Islands or United Kingdom court, judgments you may obtain in U.S. courts against us in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. Furthermore, there is substantial doubt that the courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, of the United Kingdom or of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which our offices are located would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Marshall Islands or United Kingdom court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise because the Marshall Islands and United Kingdom courts may not have subject matter jurisdiction to entertain such a suit. 27 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum, unless otherwise provided for by Marshall Islands law, for certain litigation that may be initiated by our unitholders, which could limit our unitholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Our partnership agreement provides that, unless otherwise provided for by Marshall Islands law, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any claims that: • arise out of or relate in any way to the partnership agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of the partnership agreement or the duties, obligations or • are brought in a derivative manner on our behalf; • assert a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of us or our general partner, or • owed by our general partner, to us or the limited partners; • assert a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Marshall Islands Act; or • assert a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine regardless of whether such claims, suits, actions or proceedings sound in contract, tort, fraud or otherwise, are based on common law, statutory, equitable, legal or other grounds, or are derivative or direct claims. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in our common units shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit our unitholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or unitholders. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 4. Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—Taxation of the Partnership” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax consequences relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common units. We will be subject to taxes, which will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We and our subsidiaries will be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we are organized or operate, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries, further reducing the cash available for distribution. In addition, changes in our operations, ownership or organizational structure could result in additional tax being imposed on us or our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. See “Item 4. Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—Taxation of the Partnership.” Changes in foreign taxes (including withholding taxes) could adversely affect our results of operations. We conduct a portion of our operations in Belgium, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States, and may in the future expand our business into other foreign countries. We are subject to risks that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income. Currently, distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, to us from our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to withholding and other taxes imposed by the jurisdiction in which such entities are formed or operating, which will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive. If those taxes are increased, the amount of after-tax cash we receive will be further reduced. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company” under certain circumstances, which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, or “PFIC”, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable 28 Table of Contents year consists of “passive income” or at least 50% of the average value of its assets produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. For purposes of these tests, passive income includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute passive income. U.S. unitholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. Based on our current and projected methods of operation we believe that we were not a PFIC for our 2014 taxable year and that we will not be a PFIC for our current or any future taxable year. We believe that more than 25% of our gross income for our 2014 taxable year arose and for our current and each future taxable year will arise from terminal services activities that do not generate passive income, and more than 50% of the average value of our assets for each such year will be held for the production of such nonpassive income. Assuming the composition of our income and assets is consistent with these expectations, we believe we were not a PFIC for our 2014 taxable year and will not be a PFIC for our current or any future taxable year. We have not sought, and we do not expect to seek, an IRS ruling on the treatment of income generated from our provision of terminal storage, terminal handling and related services. As a result, the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. No assurance can be given that this result will not occur. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, we cannot assure you that the nature of our operations will not change in the future, or that we will not be a PFIC in the future. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year), our U.S. unitholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders if we are treated as a PFIC. You may be subject to income tax in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such jurisdiction, we are considered to be carrying on business there. Such laws may require you to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, those jurisdictions. We intend to conduct our affairs and cause each of our subsidiaries to operate its business in a tax efficient manner. Furthermore, we intend to conduct our affairs and cause each of our subsidiaries to operate its business in a manner that minimizes the risk that unitholders may be treated as having a permanent establishment or taxable presence in a jurisdiction where we or our subsidiaries conduct activities simply by virtue of their ownership of our common units. However, because we are organized as a partnership, there is a risk in some jurisdictions that our activities or the activities of our subsidiaries may be attributed to our unitholders for tax purposes if, under the laws of such jurisdiction, we are considered to be carrying on business or have a permanent establishment there. If you are attributed such a taxable presence in a jurisdiction, you may be required to file a tax return with, and to pay tax in, that jurisdiction based on your allocable share of our income. We may be required to reduce distributions to you on account of any tax withholding obligations imposed upon us by that jurisdiction in respect of such allocation to you. In addition, we may be required to obtain information from you in the event a tax authority requires such information. The United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that you directly or indirectly incur by virtue of an investment in us. We have obtained confirmation from HM Revenue & Customs (the United Kingdom tax authority) that they should not treat unitholders as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom merely by virtue of ownership of our common units. Moreover, unitholders should not be required to pay tax in the United Kingdom merely by virtue of ownership of our common units. We have obtained an Advance Tax Ruling from the Dutch tax authorities that non-Dutch resident common unitholders will not incur Dutch non-resident tax liability (or be required to file Dutch tax returns) merely by virtue of their ownership of our common units. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Non-U.S. Tax Considerations—Netherlands Tax Considerations—Advance Tax Ruling.” With respect to countries other than the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, we believe we conduct our activities and the activities of our subsidiaries in a manner so that our common unitholders should not be considered to be carrying on business or having a permanent establishment in such other countries solely as a consequence of the acquisition, holding, disposition or redemption of our common units. However, the question of whether either we or any of our subsidiaries will be treated as carrying on business in any country (including the Netherlands and the United Kingdom) will largely be a question of fact determined through an analysis of contractual arrangements, including the services agreements we and the operating companies which own interests in our terminals have entered into with our customers, and 29 Table of Contents the way we and our subsidiaries conduct business or operations, all of which may change over time. See “Item 10. “Additional Information—Taxation—Non-U.S. Tax Considerations.” The laws of any country may also change, which could cause the country’s taxing authorities to determine that we or our subsidiaries are carrying on business or have a permanent establishment in such country and are subject to its taxation laws. 30 Table of Contents 