D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The CRM BPO market is very competitive. Our industry is very competitive, and we expect competition to remain intense from a number of sources in the future. In 2015, the top three CRM BPO companies, including us, represented approximately 13% of the global CRM BPO solutions market, based on company filings, IDC and our estimates. We believe the principal competitive factors in the markets in which we operate are industry expertise, service quality, price, and the ability to add value to a client’s business. We face competition primarily from other CRM BPO companies and IT services companies. In addition, the trend toward off-shore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continued technological changes may result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographical locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Some of these existing and future competitors may have greater financial, human and other resources, longer operating histories, greater technological expertise and more established relationships in the industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address customer needs and reduce operating costs, or enter into similar arrangements with potential clients. Further, trends of consolidation in our industry and among CRM BPO competitors may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader geographic footprint, better technologies and price efficiencies attractive to our clients. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully, and pricing pressures or loss of market share could result in reduced operating profit margins which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 17 Table of Contents Telefónica, certain of its affiliates and a few other major clients account for a significant portion of our revenue and any loss of a large portion of business from these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have derived and believe that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from companies within the Telefónica Group and a few other major client groups. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, we generated, 48.5%, 46.5% and 45.2%, respectively, of our revenue from the services provided to the Telefónica Group. Our contracts with Telefónica Group companies in Brazil and Spain comprised approximately 66.3%, 65.3% and 57.7%, respectively, of our revenue from the Telefónica Group for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Our 15 largest client groups (including the Telefónica Group) on a consolidated basis accounted for a total of 83.3% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. We are party to a master services agreement (the “MSA”) with Telefónica for the provision of certain CRM BPO services to Telefónica Group companies which governs the services agreements entered with the Telefónica Group companies. As of December 31, 2015, 42 companies within the Telefónica Group were a party to 173 arm’s-length contracts with us. While our service contracts with the Telefónica Group companies have traditionally been renewed, there can be no assurance that such contracts will be renewed upon their expiration. The MSA expires on December 31, 2021, and although the MSA is an umbrella agreement which governs our services agreements with the Telefónica Group companies, the termination of the MSA on December 31, 2021 does not automatically result in a termination of any of the local services agreements in force after that date. The MSA contemplates a right of termination prior to December 31, 2021 if a change of control of the Company occurs as a result of a sale to a Telefónica competitor. In addition, there can be no assurance that the MSA will be renewed upon its expiration. Furthermore, the MSA or any other agreement with any of the Telefónica Group companies may be amended in a manner adverse to us or terminated early. In addition, there can be no assurance that the volume of work to be performed by us for the various Telefónica Group companies will not vary significantly from year to year in the aggregate, particularly since we are not the exclusive outsourcing provider for the Telefónica Group. As a consequence, our revenue or margins from the Telefónica Group may decrease in the future. A number of factors other than the price and quality of our work and the services we provide could result in the loss or reduction of business from Telefónica Group companies including the impacts of adverse macro-economic conditions on Telefónica Group’s business, and we cannot predict the timing or occurrence of any such event. For example, a Telefónica Group company may demand price reductions, increased quality standards, change its CRM BPO strategy, or under certain circumstances transfer some or all of the work and services we currently provide to Telefónica in-house. The loss of a significant part of our revenue derived from these clients, in particular the Telefónica Group, as a result of the occurrence of one or more of the above events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A substantial portion of our revenue, operations and investments are located in Latin America and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in the region. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we derived 40.2% of our revenue from the Americas and 47.3% from Brazil. We intend to continue to develop and expand our facilities in the Americas and Brazil. Our operations and investments in the Americas and Brazil are subject to various risks related to the economic, political and social conditions of the countries in which we operate, including risks related to the following: · inconsistent regulations, licensing and legal requirements may increase our cost of operations as we endeavor to comply with myriad of laws that differ from one country to another in an unpredictable and adverse manner; · currencies may be devalued or may depreciate or currency restrictions or other restraints on transfer of funds may be imposed; · the effects of inflation and currency depreciation and fluctuation may require certain of our subsidiaries to undertake a mandatory recapitalization; 18 Table of Contents · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets or increase their participation in companies; · governments may impose burdensome regulations, taxes or tariffs; · political changes may lead to changes in the business environments in which we operate; and · economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect our operations. Any deterioration in global market and economic conditions, especially in Latin America, and, in particular in the telecommunications and financial services industries from which we generate most of our revenue, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Global market and economic conditions, including in Latin America, in the past several years have presented volatility and increasing risk perception, with tighter credit conditions and recession or slower growth in most major economies continuing into 2015. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Many of our clients’ industries are especially vulnerable to any crisis in the financial and credit markets or economic downturn. A substantial portion of our clients are concentrated in the telecommunications and financial services industries, which were especially vulnerable to the global financial crisis and economic downturn that began in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 49.2% of our revenue was derived from clients in the telecommunications industry and 35.6% of our revenue was derived from clients in the financial services industry including insurance. Our business and future growth largely depend on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly exposed to adverse changes in general global economic conditions, which may result in reductions in spending by our clients and their customers. Global economic concerns such as the varying pace of global economic recovery continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and may have an adverse effect on the cost and availability of credit, leading to decreased spending by businesses. Any deterioration of general economic conditions, or weak economic performance in the economies of the countries in which we operate, in particular in Brazil and the Americas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Brazil and the Americas, for example, comprised 84.5%, 85.5% and 87.5% of our revenue respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. In addition, key markets such as the telecommunications and financial services industries comprised 84.8% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Increases in employee benefit expenses as well as changes to labor laws could reduce our profit margin. Employee benefit expenses is our largest expense and accounted for $1,643.5 million in 2013, $1,636.4 million in 2014 and $1,422.7 million in 2015, or 70.2%, 71.2% and 72.4%, respectively, of our revenue in those periods. Employee salaries and benefits expenses in many of the countries in which we operate, principally in Latin America, have increased during the periods presented in this Annual Report as a result of economic growth, increased demand for CRM BPO services and increased competition for trained employees such as employees at our service delivery centers in Latin America. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Total operating expenses.” We will attempt to control costs associated with salaries and benefits as we continue to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase salaries more significantly and rapidly than in previous periods in an effort to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Wage increases or other expenses related to the termination of our employees may reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we expand our operations into new jurisdictions, we may be subject to increased operating costs, including higher employee benefit expenses in these new jurisdictions relative to our current operating costs, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, most of the countries in which we operate have labor protection laws, including statutorily mandated minimum annual wage increases, legislation that imposes financial obligations on employers and laws governing the employment of workers. These labor laws in one or more of the key jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly Brazil, may be modified in the future in a way that is detrimental to our business. If these labor laws become more stringent, or if there are continued increases in statutory minimum wages or higher labor costs in these jurisdictions, it may become more difficult for us to discharge employees, or cost-effectively downsize our operations as our level of activity fluctuates, both of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 19 Table of Contents We may fail to attract and retain sufficiently trained employees at our service delivery centers to support our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The CRM BPO industry relies on large numbers of trained employees at service centers, and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain employees. The CRM BPO industry, including us, experiences high employee turnover. On average in the year ended December 31, 2015, we experienced monthly turnover rates of 6.9% of our overall operations personnel (we include both permanent and temporary employees, counting each from his or her first day of employment with us) requiring us to continuously hire and train new employees, particularly in Latin America, where there is significant competition for trained employees with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. In addition, we compete for employees, within our industry as well as with companies in other industries and in many locations where we operate there are a limited number of properly trained employees. Increased competition for these employees, in the CRM BPO industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, a significant increase in the turnover rate among trained employees could increase our costs and decrease our profit margins. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements, obtain new business and increase our margins will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain employees with skills that enable us to keep pace with growing demands for outsourcing, evolving industry standards, new technology applications and changing client preferences. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the experience and skills necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing and/or control costs. Our profit margins, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of our level of activity and the rates we are able to charge for our services. If we are unable to maintain the pricing for our services and/or an appropriate seat utilization rate, without corresponding cost reductions, our profitability will decline. The pricing and levels of activity we are able to achieve are affected by a number of factors, including our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, the length of time it takes for volume of new clients to ramp up, competition, the introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors, our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain revenue from client contracts, margins and cash flows over increasingly longer contract periods and general economic and political conditions. Our profitability is also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we increase the number of our employees and execute our strategies for growth, we may not be able to manage the significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce, which could adversely affect our ability to control our costs or improve our efficiency. Further, because there is no certainty that our business will grow at the rate that we anticipate, we may incur expenses for the increased capacity for a significant period of time without a corresponding growth in our revenue. If our clients decide to enter or further expand their own CRM BPO businesses in the future or current trends towards providing CRM BPO services and/or outsourcing activities slow or are reversed, it may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. None of our current agreements with our clients prevents them from competing with us in our CRM BPO business and none of our clients have entered into any non-compete agreements with us. Our current clients may seek to provide CRM BPO services similar to those we provide. Some clients conduct CRM BPO services for other parts of their own businesses and for third parties. Any decision by our key clients to enter into or further expand their CRM BPO business activities in the future could cause us to lose valuable clients and suppliers and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, we have based our strategy of future growth on certain assumptions regarding our industry, legal framework, services and future demand in the market for such services. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could be reversed by factors beyond our control, including negative perceptions attached to outsourcing activities or government regulations against outsourcing activities. In addition, our business may be adversely affected by potential new laws and regulations prohibiting or limiting outsourcing of certain core business activities of our clients in key jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, such as in Brazil. The introduction of such laws and regulations or the change in interpretation of existing laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 20 Table of Contents The consolidation of the potential users of CRM BPO services may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Consolidation of the potential users of CRM BPO services may decrease the number of clients who contract our services. Any significant reduction in or elimination of the use of the services we provide as a result of consolidation would result in reduced net revenue to us and could harm our business. Such consolidation may encourage clients to apply increasing pressure on us to lower the prices we charge for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results may fluctuate from one quarter to the next due to various factors including seasonality. Our operating results may differ significantly from quarter to quarter and our business may be affected by factors such as: client losses, the timing of new contracts and of new product or service offerings, termination of existing contracts, variations in the volume of business from clients resulting from changes in our clients’ operations or the onset of certain parts of the year, such as the summer vacation period in our geographically diverse markets and the year-end holiday season in Latin America, the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services, start-up costs, delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities and infrastructure, changes to our revenue mix or to our pricing structure or that of our competitors, inaccurate estimates of resources and time required to complete ongoing projects, currency fluctuation and seasonal changes in the operations of our clients. We typically generate less revenue in the first quarter of the year and is related of the fact that our clients generally spend less after the year-end holiday season. We have also found that our revenue increases in the last quarter of the year, particularly in November and December when our business benefits from the increased activity of our clients and their customers, who generally spend more money and are otherwise more active during the year-end holiday season. These seasonal effects also cause differences in revenue and income among the various quarters of any financial year, which means that the individual quarters of a year should not be directly compared with each other or used to predict annual financial results. In addition, the sales cycle for our services, typically from six to 12 months (from the date the contract is entered into until the beginning of the provision of services), and the internal budget and approval processes of our prospective clients, make it difficult to predict the timing of new client engagements. Also, we recognize revenue only upon actual provision of the contracted services and when the criteria for recognition are achieved. The financial benefit of gaining a new client may not be realized at the intended time due to delays in the implementation of our services or due to an increase in the start-up costs required in building our infrastructure. These factors may make it difficult for us to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenue that is not received as a result of these delays. Our key clients have significant leverage over our business relationships, upon which we are dependent. We are dependent upon the business relationships we have developed with our clients. Our service contracts generally allow our clients to modify such relationships and our commensurate level of work. Typically, the initial term of our service contracts is one to two years. Generally, our specific service contracts provide for early termination, in some cases without cause, by either party, provided 30 to 90 days prior written notice is given. Clients may also unilaterally reduce the use and number of services under our contracts without penalty. The termination or reduction in services by a substantial percentage or a significant reduction in the price of these contracts could adversely affect our business and reduce our margins. The revenue generated from our fifteen largest client groups (including Telefónica Group companies) for the year ended December 31, 2015 represented 83.3% of our revenue. Excluding revenue generated from the Telefónica Group, our next 15 largest client groups for the year ended December 31, 2015 represented in aggregate 38.8% of our revenue. In addition, a contract termination or significant reduction in the services contracted to us by a major client could result in a higher-than-expected number of unassigned employees, which would increase our employee benefit expenses associated with terminating employees. We may not be able to replace any major client that elects to terminate or not to renew its contract with us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 21 Table of Contents We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience. We may expand our global footprint to maintain an appropriate cost structure and meet our clients’ delivery needs. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate and where we have less familiarity with local procedures. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries we may encounter economic, regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up our operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our success depends on our key employees. Our success depends on the continued service and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel in each of our business units, including our structure personnel. There is competition for experienced senior management and personnel with expertise in the CRM BPO industry, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or recruit skilled personnel with appropriate qualifications and experience. Although we have entered into employment contracts with our executive officers, it may not be possible to require specific performance under a contract for personal services and in any event these agreements do not ensure the continued service of these executive officers. The loss of key members of our personnel, particularly to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In February 2016, Nelson Armbrust, Atento Brasil’s chief executive officer resigned from the Company and has since been named chief executive officer of Contax, a competitor of the Company. Mr. Armbrust’s employment with the Company was governed by an employment contract, which required that Mr. Armbrust provide the Company with three months’ notice prior to resignation and prohibited him from being employed by a competitor of the Company for twelve months. The Company has been granted an injunction by Civil Justice precluding Mr. Armbrust from working for Contax. Mr. Armbrust has appealed and the suit is awaiting decision from the appeals court. Mr. Armbrust has also countersued the Company and received a provisional remedy from Labor Justice to guarantee his right to work for Contax. This labor decision does not impact the effectiveness of the civil injunction so the suit will be heard by the State Superior Court to decide whether Civil Justice or Labor Justice has jurisdiction.” If we experience challenges with respect to labor relations, our overall operating costs and profitability could be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed. While we believe we have good relations with our employees, any work disruptions or collective labor actions may have an adverse impact on our services. Approximately 77% of our workforce is under collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements are generally renegotiated every one to three years with the principal labor unions in seven of the countries in which we operate. If these labor negotiations are not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain good relations with employees, we could suffer a strike or other significant work stoppage or other form of industrial action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and harm our reputation. We have a long selling cycle for our CRM BPO services that requires significant investments and management resources, and a long implementation cycle that requires significant resource commitments. We have a long selling cycle for our CRM BPO services, which requires significant investment of capital, resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them as to the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our selling cycle, which generally ranges from six to 12 months, is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients’ decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house offshore resources) and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes. Implementing our services involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby delaying further the implementation process. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 Table of Contents Natural events, wars, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving any of the countries in which we or our clients have operations could adversely affect our operations and client confidence. Natural events (such as floods and earthquakes), terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely disrupt our operations, lead to economic weakness in the countries in which they occur and affect worldwide financial markets, and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. These events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to our business operations around the world. Rapid growth may make it difficult for us to maintain our internal operational and financial systems. Since our founding in 1999, and particularly from 2004, we have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our operations in key regions and client industries. Our number of workstations increased from 79,197 as of December 31, 2013, to 86,071 as of December 31, 2014 and 91,567 as of December 31, 2015. The average number of employees (excluding internships) decreased from 155,832 for the year ended December 31, 2013, to 154,176 for the year ended December 31, 2014 and increased to 163,974 for the year ended December 31, 2015. This rapid growth places significant demands on our management and financial and operational resources. To manage growth effectively, we must recruit new employees and implement improved operational systems, procedures and internal controls on a timely basis. In addition, we need to update our existing internal accounting, financial and cost control systems to ensure we can access all necessary financial information. If we fail to implement these systems, procedures and controls or update these systems on a timely basis, we may not be able to service our clients’ needs, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business, complete future acquisitions or operate our business effectively. Failure to effectively transfer new client business to our delivery centers, properly budget transfer costs, accurately estimate operational costs associated with new contracts or access financial, accounting or cost control information in a timely fashion could result in delays in executing client contracts, trigger service level penalties or cause our profit margins not to meet our expectations. Any inability to control such growth or update our systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to fund our working capital requirements and new investments, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The CRM BPO industry is characterized by high working capital requirements and the need to make new investments in operating sites and employee resources to meet the requirements of our clients. Similar to our competitors in this industry, we incur significant start-up costs related to investments in infrastructure to provide our services and the hiring and training of employees, such expenses being historically incurred before revenue is generated. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in our main clients’ payment policies, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund our working capital needs. During the year ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, our average days sales outstanding (“DSO”) was approximately 65 days. If our key clients implement policies which extend the payment terms of our invoices, our working capital levels could be adversely affected and our finance costs may increase. As a result, under the service contracts we entered into since that time, the provisions relating to the time by which Telefónica must satisfy its payment obligations to us was extended. Our working capital was $385.9 million, $340.9 million and $293.1 million as of December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. If we are unable to fund our working capital requirements, access financing at competitive prices or make investments to meet the expanding business of our existing and potential new clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Fluctuations in, or devaluation of, the local currencies in the countries in which we operate against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As of December 31, 2015, 95.8% of our revenue was generated in countries that use currencies other than the U.S. dollar, mostly the local currencies of the Latin American countries in which we operate (particularly, currencies such as the Brazilian real, the Mexican peso, the Chilean peso and the Argentinean peso). Both Brazil and Mexico have experienced inflation and volatility in the past and some Latin American countries have recently been classified as hyperinflationary economies. While inflation may not have a significant effect on the profit and loss of a local subsidiary itself, depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar would reduce the value of the dividends payable to us from our operating companies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars and our results of operations would be adversely affected if these local currencies depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar, which may also affect the comparability of our financial results from period to period, as we convert our subsidiaries’ statements of financial position into U.S. dollars from local currencies at the period end exchange rate, and income and cash flow statements at average exchange rates for the year. Conversely, where we provide off-shore services to U.S. clients and our revenue is earned in U.S. dollars, an appreciation in the currency of the country in which the services are provided could result in an increase in our costs in proportion to the revenue we earn for those services. The exchange rates between these local currencies and the U.S. dollar have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, these fluctuations had a significant effect on our results of operations. In addition, future government action, including changes in interest rates and monetary policy or intervention in the exchange markets and other government action to adjust the value of the local currency may trigger inflationary increases. For example, governmental measures to control inflation may include maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and reducing economic growth. As a result, interest rates may fluctuate significantly. Furthermore, losses incurred based on the exchange rate used may be exacerbated if regulatory restrictions are imposed when these currencies are converted into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of such fluctuations, devaluations or other currency risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Brazilian government exercises significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This influence, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and, 2013, revenue from our operations in Brazil accounted for 47.3%, 51.6% and 51.5% of our total revenue, respectively and Adjusted EBITDA from our operations in Brazil accounted for 51.7%, 54.4% and 52.6% of our total Adjusted EBITDA, respectively. In each case, before holding company level revenue and, expenses and consolidation adjustments. Historically, the Brazilian government has frequently intervened in the Brazilian economy and occasionally made drastic changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and implement macroeconomic policies have in the past often involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations, or by other factors such as: · devaluations and other currency fluctuations; · inflation rates; · interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · energy shortages; · exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad (such as those that were briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990); 24 Table of Contents · monetary policy; · minimum wage policy; · tax policy; and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Currently, Brazilian markets are experiencing heightened volatility due to the uncertainties derived from the ongoing “Lava Jato” investigation, being conducted by the Office of the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor, which has impacted the Brazilian economy and political environment. Members of the Brazilian federal government and of the legislative branch, as well as senior officers of large state-owned companies and privately held companies, have faced allegations of political corruption, including allegedly accepting bribes by means of kickbacks on contracts granted by the government. The profits of these kickbacks allegedly financed the political campaigns of political parties of the current federal government coalition that were unaccounted for or not publicly disclosed, and personally enriched the recipients of bribes under this bribery scheme. The potential outcome of these investigations is uncertain, but they have already had an adverse impact on the image and reputation of the implicated companies, and on the general market perception of the Brazilian economy. Brazil’s political scenario is further complicated by the ongoing impeachment proceedings against Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff. We cannot predict whether such allegations will lead to further political and economic instability or whether new allegations against government officials will arise in the future. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any such allegations nor their effect on the Brazilian economy. Furthermore, future developments in policies of the Brazilian government and/or the uncertainty of whether and when such policies and regulations may be implemented, all of which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the President of Brazil has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy that could consequently affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict what policies may be implemented by the Brazilian federal or state governments and whether these policies will negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax policies that may increase our and our clients’ tax burdens. These changes can include modifications in the rate of assessments, non-renewal of existing tax relief, such as the Plano Brasil Maior and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA from our operations in Brazil, if the Plano Brasil Maior is not extended or not made permanent, it would have a significant negative impact on our total costs. Our inability to pass through such increase in costs to our customers will materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, increases in our overall tax burden could negatively affect our overall financial performance and profitability. The Brazilian currency has been devalued over the past four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and used various exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations (such as daily adjustments), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. In the past, Brazil’s economy has experienced balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves, and the government has responded by restricting the ability of persons or entities, Brazilian or foreign, to convert Brazilian currency into any foreign currency. The government may institute a restrictive exchange control policy in the future. Any restrictive exchange control policy could prevent or restrict our access to other currencies to meet our financial obligations and our ability to pay dividends out of our Brazilian activities. In September 2015, the Law number 13.161/2015 was published and came into force on December 1, 2015, raising the social security tax from 2% to 3% on gross revenue for the call center industry. As a result of this tax increase we are negotiating with clients to pass these added expenses through as part of amounts billed. 25 Table of Contents Uncertainty over whether possible changes in policies or rules affecting these or other factors may contribute to economic uncertainties in Brazil, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Adverse decisions of the Superior Labor Court or other labor authorities in Brazil with respect to the legality of outsourcing of certain activities that we provide could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There is no legislation in Brazil regulating outsourcing activities. The judicial system has been considering this issue in light of the precedent “Súmula No. 331” of Brazil’s Superior Labor Court (Tribunal Superior do Trabalho), or “TST,” which prohibits outsourcing of core business activities. TST has been issuing decisions that stipulated that call center activities are core to a telecommunications company’s business and cannot be outsourced. In conflict with this opinion, the Brazilian Telecommunications General Act (Lei Geral de Telecomunicação), or the “Act,” explicitly allows the outsourcing of certain activities by telecommunications companies. Several telecommunications companies in Brazil have filed appeals with the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court (Supremo Tribunal Federal), or “STF,” arguing that TST decisions are inconsistent with the provisions of the Act. At issue in certain of these cases is also whether the Act is constitutional. Recently, the STF confirmed that it has jurisdiction to consider arguments regarding the legality of service outsourcing in Brazil and, therefore, that it will hear the merit of the claim. The decision of the STF will be a binding precedent that must be adhered to by lower courts, including TST. We cannot predict when any such decision would be issued nor what the final outcome of such cases will be. On 2016, January, TRT – MG, State Labor Court from Minas Gerais State, enacted the “Súmula No. 49”, disposing that the telemarketing service rendered to Financial Institutions is illegal once it would mean core business activities outsourcing. This decision is a precedent for all labor suits decisions in Minas Gerais State. However, it can influence other state’s Labor decisions. The Call Center companies, through the ABT (Telemarketing Companies Association) will prepare a request to the STF to suspend all the individuals labor legal suits until the STF´s renders a decision in another outsourcing suit discussing. In addition, there is currently a bill under consideration at the Brazilian Congress to pass a law that would permit and regulate the outsourcing business in Brazil generally. We cannot make assurance that such bill will eventually be approved and become law in Brazil or that, if approved, will not be less favorable to our operations. It is possible that our clients in other industries could be subject to future similar adverse decisions of Brazilian labor courts relating to the interpretation of Súmula 331 and the legality of outsourcing activities. Further adverse decisions of these courts, whether in the telecommunications industry or other industries, with respect to the scope of activities that are permitted to be outsourced, or an adverse decision by the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court in any of the appeals described above, may inhibit or prevent our existing and potential new clients from outsourcing activities. In addition, our service contracts generally require us to indemnify our clients for certain labor related claims against them by our employees and consequently, future adverse decisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Argentina has undergone significant political, social and economic instability in the past several years, and if such instability continues or worsens, our Argentine operations could be materially adversely affected. In 2015 our operations in Argentina accounted for 8.2% of our revenue and 7.0% of our EBITDA (in each case, before holding company level revenue and expenses and consolidation adjustments). Political and Currency Risk. In 2015, the Argentine economy has experienced a recession, as well as a political and social crisis, and the significant depreciation of the Argentine peso against major international currencies. Depending on the relative impact of other variables affecting our operations, including technological changes, inflation, gross domestic product (“GDP”) growth, and regulatory changes, the continued depreciation of the Argentine peso may have a negative impact on our business in Argentina. For example, in 2015, the Argentine peso depreciated approximately 34.4% against the U.S. dollar. The country has been experiencing high inflation in recent years and there can be no assurance that Argentina will not experience another recession, higher inflation, devaluation, unemployment and social unrest in the future. In addition, the country’s sovereign debt crisis continues to unfold and the outcome thereof, including related litigation between Argentina and certain of its debt holders, remains uncertain. In case Argentina continues to be technically in default in its international debt it will not be possible for the new administration to get much needed international financing and its ability to perform infrastructure work will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Restrictions on Transfer of Funds. Argentina was under a severe exchange control system that required government approval for any transfer of funds including – list a few examples here to connect this to the rest of the paragraph. Although the Macri administration elected on December 10, 2015 had taken measures to lift foreign exchange controls there can be no assurance that the Argentine government will not impose new restrictions on the transfer of funds from Argentina to preserve and protect foreign exchange reserves. In such scenario, it is possible, for example, that the government restricts, either directly or indirectly, the transfer of dividends from local companies to their foreign shareholders. If we are unable to repatriate funds from Argentina for whatever reason, we will not be able to use the cash flow from our Argentine operations to finance our operating requirements elsewhere or to satisfy our debt obligations. In case of a financial crisis, there can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our operations in Argentina. We may seek to acquire suitable companies in the future and if we cannot find suitable targets or cannot integrate these companies properly into our business after acquiring them, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. While we have grown almost exclusively organically, we may in the future pursue transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, to expand our product offerings and geographic presence as part of our business strategy. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We may not complete future transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition or investments. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. We also could experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from Acquisition related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the of the Reorganization Transaction. This includes regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired company or business and potential adverse short-term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit profile and result in reduced availability of credit to us or increased borrowing costs and interest expense in the future. Additionally, the inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or the inability to complete such transactions may affect our competitiveness. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate effectively such future acquisitions into our operations and may not obtain the profitability we expect from such acquisitions. Any such risks related to future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to provide our services depends in part upon the quality and reliability of the facilities, machinery and equipment provided by our technology and telecommunications providers, our reliance on a limited number of suppliers of such technology and the services and products of our clients. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to provide high quality and reliable services, which in part depends on the proper functioning of facilities, machinery and equipment (including appropriate hardware and software and technological applications) provided by third parties and our reliance on a limited number of suppliers of such technology, and is, therefore, beyond our control. We also depend on the communication services provided by local communication companies in the countries in which we operate, and any significant disruptions in these services would adversely affect our business. If these or other third party providers fail to maintain their equipment properly or fail to provide proper services in a timely or reliable manner our clients may experience service interruptions. If interruptions adversely affect our services or the perceived quality and reliability of our services, we may lose client relationships or be forced to make significant unplanned investments in the purchase of additional equipment from other providers to ensure that we can continue to provide high quality and reliable services to our clients. In addition, if one or more of the limited number of suppliers of our technology could not deliver or provide us with the requisite technology on a timely basis, our clients could suffer further interruptions. Any such interruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, in some areas of our business, we depend upon the quality and reliability of the services and products of our clients which we help to sell to their end customers. If the services and products we provide to our clients experience technical difficulties, we may have a harder time selling these services and products to other clients, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 27 Table of Contents Our business depends in part on our capacity to invest in technology and these costs of technology and telecommunications services, which we rely on from third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The CRM BPO industry in which we operate is subject to the periodic introduction of new technologies which often can enable us to service our clients more efficiently and cost effectively. Our business sucecess is partly linked to our ability to recognize these new technological innovations from industry leading providers of such technology and to apply these technological innovations to our business. If we do not recognize the importance of a particular new technology to our business in a timely manner or are not committed to investing in and developing such new technology and applying these technologies to our business, our current products and services may be less attractive to existing and new clients, and we may lose market share to competitors who have recognized these trends and invested in such technology. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capacity or capital to meet these challenges. Any such failure to recognize the importance of such technology or a decision not to invest and develop such technology that keeps pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any increases in the cost of telecommunications services and products provided by third parties, including telecommunications equipment, software, IT products and related IT services and call center workstations have a direct effect on our operating costs. The cost of telecommunications services is subject to a number of factors, including changes in regulations and the telecommunications market as well as competitive factors, for example, the concentration and bargaining power of technology and telecommunications suppliers, most of which are beyond our control or which we cannot predict. The increase in the costs of these essential services and products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If our services do not comply with the quality standards required by our clients or we are in breach of our obligations under our agreements with our clients, our clients may assert claims for reduced payments to us or substantial damages against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Most of our contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services and the timing and quality of responses to the client’s inquiries. In some cases, the quality of services that we provide is measured by quality assurance indicators and surveys which are based in part on the results of direct monitoring by our clients of interactions between our employees and their customers. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a customer or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to customers could disrupt our client’s business and result in a reduction in revenue or a claim for substantial damages against us. For example, some of our agreements stipulate standards of service that, if not met by us, would result in lower payments to us. We also enter into variable pricing arrangements with certain clients and the quality of services provided may be a component of the calculation of the total amounts received from such clients under these arrangements. In addition, in connection with our service contracts, certain representations may be made, including representations relating to the quality of our services, the ability of our associates and our project management techniques. A failure or inability to meet these requirements or a breach of such representations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business or result in a claim for damages against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business operations are subject to various regulations and changes to these regulations or enactment of new regulations could require us to make additional expenditures, restrict our business operations or expose us to significant fines or penalties in the case of non-compliance with such regulations. Our business operations must be conducted in accordance with a number of sometimes conflicting government regulations, including but not limited to, data protection laws and consumer laws, and labor conditions laws, as well as trade restrictions and sanctions, tariffs, taxation, data privacy and labor relations. Under data protection laws, we are typically required to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential customer data in connection with the services we provide. Under the terms of our client contracts, we represent that we will keep such information strictly confidential. Furthermore, we are subject to local data protection laws, consumer laws and/or “do not call list” regulations in most of the countries in which we operate, all of which may require us to make additional expenditures to ensure compliance with these regulations. We also believe that we will be subject to additional laws and regulations in the future that may be stricter than those currently in force to protect consumers and end users. We seek to implement measures to protect sensitive and confidential customer data in accordance with client contracts and data protection laws and consumer laws. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates sensitive or confidential customer data, we could be subject to significant fines for breaching privacy or data protection and consumer laws or lawsuits from our clients or their customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions which could result in negative publicity, legal liability, loss of clients and damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, our business operations may be impacted if current regulations are made stricter or more broadly applied or if new regulations are adopted. Violations of these regulations could impact our reputation and result in financial liability, criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and breach of our contractual commitments. Any broadening of current regulations or the introduction of new regulations may require us to make additional expenditures, restrict our business operations or expose us to significant fines or penalties, even the temporary shut down our facilities. Any such violations or changes in regulations could, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 28 Table of Contents Damage or disruptions to our key technology systems and facilities either through events beyond or within our control that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our key technology systems and facilities may be damaged in natural disasters such as earthquakes or fires or subject to damage or compromise from human error, technical disruptions, power failure, computer glitches and viruses, telecommunications failures, adverse weather conditions and other unforeseen events, all of which are beyond our control or through bad service or poor performance which are within our control. Such events may cause disruptions to information systems, electrical power and telephone service for sustained periods. Any significant failure, damage or destruction of our equipment or systems, or any major disruptions to basic infrastructure such as power and telecommunications systems in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients and thus adversely affect their businesses, have a negative impact on our reputation and may cause us to incur substantial additional expenses to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. While we currently have property damage insurance in force, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to guarantee costs of repairing the damage caused from such disruptive events and such events may not be covered under our policies. Prolonged disruption of our services, even if due to events beyond our control could also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Tax matters, new legislation and actions by taxing authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We may not be able to predict our future tax liabilities due to the international nature of our operations, as we are subject to the complex and varying tax laws and rules of several foreign jurisdictions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if tax contingencies are resolved adversely or if we become subject to increased levels of taxation. We are also subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous other foreign jurisdictions. Our tax expense and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations and the potential adverse outcome of tax examinations and pending tax-related litigation. Changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which may result from a decline in our profitability or changes in tax rates or legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our tax expense. The governments of foreign jurisdictions from which we deliver services may assert that certain of our clients have a “permanent establishment” in such foreign jurisdictions by reason of the activities we perform on their behalf, particularly those clients that exercise control over or have substantial dependency on our services. Such an assertion could affect the size and scope of the services requested by such clients in the future. Transfer pricing regulations to which we are subject require that any transaction among us and our subsidiaries be on arm’s-length terms. If the applicable tax authorities were to determine that the transactions among us and our subsidiaries do not meet arms’ length criteria, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties. Such increase on our tax expenses would reduce our profitability and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and cause us to lose clients. We are typically required to collect and store sensitive data in connection with our services, including names, addresses, social security numbers, credit card account numbers, checking and savings account numbers and payment history records, such as account closures and returned checks. As the complexity of information infrastructure continuous to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks increases. Such breaches can lead to shutdowns or system interruptions, and potential unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information. We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information. Laws and regulations that impact our business are increasing in complexity, change frequently, and at times conflict among the various jurisdictions where we do business. In addition, many of our service agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to clients with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive confidential. We take precautions to protect confidential client and customer data. However, if any person, including any of our employees, gains unauthorized access or penetrates our network security or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates sensitive data or violates our established data and information security controls, we could be subject to significant liability to our clients or their customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws, including legal proceedings, monitory damages, significant remediation costs and regulatory enforcement actions. Penetration of the network security of our data centers could have a negative impact on our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. Any internal and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can only provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. The design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision—making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individuals acting alone or in collusion with others to override controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the design of a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not always be prevented or timely detected. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective now or in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are a party to a number of labor disputes resulting from our operations in Brazil. As of December 31, 2015, Atento Brasil S.A. (“Atento Brazil”) was party to approximately 10,936 labor disputes initiated by our employees or former employees for various reasons, such as dismissals or disputes over employment conditions. The estimated amount involved in these claims total $60.8 million of which $26.8 million have been classified as probable, $30.2 million classified as possible and $3.8 million classified as remote, based on inputs from external and internal counsels as well as historical statistics. In connection with such disputes, Atento Brazil and its affiliates have, in accordance with local laws, deposited $26.6 million with the Brazilian courts as security for claims made by employees or former employees (the “Judicial Deposits”). In addition, considering the levels of litigation in Brazil and our historical experience with these types of claims, as of December 31, 2015, we have recognized $26.8 million of provisions ($53.9 million as of December 31, 2014 and $71.9 million as of December 31, 2013). We are also a party to various labor disputes and potential disputes in other jurisdictions in which we operate, including Argentina and Mexico. If our provisions for any of our labor claims are insufficient or the claims against us rise significantly in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. Our existing debt may affect our flexibility in operating and developing our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2015, we had total indebtedness of $575.6 million. Our level of indebtedness may have significant negative effects on our future operations, including: · impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future (or to obtain such financing on acceptable terms) for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other important needs; 30 Table of Contents · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could impair our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other important needs; · increasing the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments; and · limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing conditions in the industry, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or business than our competitors with less debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained. Our inability to obtain such refinancing or financing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, several of our financing arrangements contain a number of covenants and restrictions including limits on our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends and make certain investments. Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that make it more difficult to successfully execute our business strategy and we may face competition from companies not subject to such restrictions. Moreover, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default or refusal by our creditors to renew certain of our loans. Risks Related to Investment in a Luxembourg Company We are a Luxembourg public limited liability company (société anonyme) and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our executive officers and directors in the United States. We are organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Most of our assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, some of our directors and officers named in this Annual Report reside outside the United States and most of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, investors may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. Luxembourg law, furthermore, does not recognize a shareholder’s right to bring a derivative action on behalf of the Company. As there is no treaty in force on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, courts in Luxembourg will not automatically recognize and enforce a final judgment rendered by a U.S. court. The enforceability in Luxembourg courts of judgments entered by U.S. courts will depend upon the conditions set forth in the Luxembourg procedural code, which may include the following: · the judgment of the U.S. court is enforceable (exécutoire) in the United States; · the U.S. court had jurisdiction over the subject matter leading to the judgment (that is, its jurisdiction was in compliance both with Luxembourg private international law rules and with the applicable domestic U.S. federal or state jurisdictional rules); · the U.S. court has applied to the dispute the substantive law designated by the Luxembourg conflict of law rules (although one first instance decision rendered in Luxembourg—which had not been appealed—no longer applies this condition); · the judgment was granted following proceedings where the counterparty had the opportunity to appear, and if appeared, there was no violation of the rights of the defendant; · the U.S. court has acted in accordance with its own procedural rules; and 31 Table of Contents · the judgment of the U.S. court does not contravene Luxembourg international public policy. Our directors and officers, past and present, are entitled to indemnification from us to the fullest extent permitted by Luxembourg law against liability and all expenses reasonably incurred or paid by him in connection with any losses or liabilities, claim, action, suit or proceeding in which he is involved by virtue of his being or having been a director or officer and against amounts paid or incurred by him in the settlement thereof, subject to limited exceptions. To the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among us and any of our current or former directors and officers will be governed exclusively by the laws of Luxembourg and subject to the jurisdiction of the Luxembourg courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities as directors or officers. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such a provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside Luxembourg more difficult to enforce against our assets in Luxembourg or in jurisdictions that would apply Luxembourg law. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing public limited liability companies organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our directors and officers under Luxembourg law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our directors and officers or our principal shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. You may not be able to participate in equity offerings, and you may not receive any value for rights that we may grant. Pursuant to Luxembourg law on commercial companies, dated August 10, 1915, as amended (the “Luxembourg Corporate Law”), existing shareholders are generally entitled to pre-emptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. However, our articles of association provide that preemptive subscription rights can be limited, waived or cancelled by our board of directors for a period ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of publication of the notarial deed recording the minutes of the extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting in the Luxembourg Legal Gazette approving an increase of the share capital by the board of directors within the limits of the authorized share capital, which publication has occurred on December 3, 2014. The general meeting of our shareholders may renew, expand or amend such authorization. See Item IOB “Articles of association.” for additional detail. Luxembourg insolvency laws may offer our shareholders less protection than they would have under U.S. insolvency laws. As a company organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and with our registered office in Luxembourg, we are subject to Luxembourg insolvency laws in the event any insolvency proceedings are initiated against us including, amount other things, Council Regulation (EC) No. 1346/2000 of May 29, 2000 on insolvency proceedings. Should courts in another European country determine that the insolvency laws of that country apply to us in accordance with and subject to such EU regulations, the courts in that country could have jurisdiction over the insolvency proceedings initiated against us. Insolvency laws in Luxembourg or the relevant other European country, if any, may offer our shareholders less protection than they would have under U.S. insolvency laws and make it more difficult for them to recover the amount they could expect to recover in a liquidation under U.S. insolvency laws. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Control by Bain Capital could adversely affect our other shareholders. Bain Capital controls Topco and PikCo, and owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 85.1% of our ordinary shares, Bain Capital have a continuing ability to control our board of directors and to exercise significant influence over our affairs for the foreseeable future, including controlling the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or our assets. In addition, because we are a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange that require that our board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors, that we have a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors and that we have a nominating and governance committee comprised solely of independent directors. 32 Table of Contents This concentrated control by Bain Capital limits the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. For example, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirement that a majority of an issuer’s directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. The New York Stock Exchange listing rules requires listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of their board members be independent, and to have independent director oversight of executive compensation, nomination of directors and corporate governance matters. As a foreign private issuer, however, while we intend to comply with these requirements within the permitted phase-in periods, we are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. Luxembourg law, the law of our home country, does not require that a majority of our board consist of independent directors or the implementation of a nominating and corporate governance committee, and our board may thus in the future not include, or include fewer, independent directors than would be required if we were subject to the New York Stock Exchange listing rules, or they may decide that it is in our interest not to have a compensation committee or nominating and corporate governance committee, or have such committees governed by practices that would not comply with New York Stock Exchange listing rules. Since a majority of our board of directors may not consist of independent directors if we decide to rely on the foreign private issuer exemption to the New York Stock Exchange listing rules, our board’s approach may, therefore, be different from that of a board with a majority of independent directors, and as a result, the management oversight of our Company could, in the future, be more limited than if we were subject to the New York Stock Exchange listing rules. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as companies that are not foreign private issuers whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. As a result, our shareholders may not have access to information they deem important, which may result in our shares being less attractive to investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares. Based on the composition of our income, assets and operations, we do not expect to be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. Furthermore, this is a factual determination that must be made annually after the close of each taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a “U.S. Holder” (a beneficial owner of ordinary shares that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes: (a) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the U.S.; (b) a corporation (or other entity taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the U.S., any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (c) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or (d) a trust (i) if a court within the U.S. can exercise primary supervision over its administration, and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all of the substantial decisions of that trust, or (ii) that was in existence on August 20, 1996 and validly elected under applicable Treasury Regulations to continue to be treated as a domestic trust) holds our ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and may trade at prices below the initial public offering price. The stock market in general, and the market for equities of newly-public companies in particular, have been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our ordinary shares may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their ordinary shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, or a complete loss of their investment. The price of our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: 33 Table of Contents · variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · changes in our revenue or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; · our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; · additions or departures of key personnel; · strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; · announcement of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · the passage of legislation, changes in interpretations of laws or other regulatory events or developments affecting us; · speculation in the press or investment community; · changes in accounting principles; · terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; · changes in general market and economic conditions; · changes or trends in our industry; · investors’ perception of our prospects; and · adverse resolution of any new or pending litigation against us. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle or defend litigation. Future sales of our ordinary shares, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our share price. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our ordinary shares in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. We have 73.7 million ordinary shares outstanding as of April 13, 2016. Of these shares, 15.3 million ordinary shares were sold in our initial public offering and are freely tradable in the United States, except for any ordinary shares purchased by our “affiliates” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. PikCo is entitled, under contracts providing for registration rights, to require us to register our ordinary shares owned by them with the SEC. Upon effectiveness of any registration statement, subject to lock-up agreements with the representatives of the underwriters, those ordinary shares will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. Sales of our ordinary shares or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell our ordinary shares. 34 Table of Contents Any determination to pay dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors, and we may not pay any dividends. Accordingly, investors may only realize future gains on their investments if the price of their ordinary shares increases, which may never occur. Though we currently intend to pay dividends in the future, any such determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors. The payment of cash distributions on ordinary shares is restricted under the terms of our Senior Secured Notes, Brazilian Debentures, and our CVIs (Contingent Value Instrument). In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to make any distributions on ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of our Senior Secured Notes, Brazilian Debentures and our CVIs. Furthermore, under the laws of Luxembourg, we are able to make distributions only to the extent that we have profits available and distributable reserves. Accordingly, investors may only realize future gains on their investments if the price of their ordinary shares increases, which may never occur. See “Financial Information—Dividend Distributions.” If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The market price of our ordinary shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our ordinary shares or its trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrade our ordinary shares or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. Future equity issuances may dilute the holdings of ordinary shareholders and could materially affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We may in the future decide to offer additional equity to rise capital or for other purposes. Any such additional offering could reduce the proportionate ownership and voting interests of holders of our ordinary shares, as well as our earnings per ordinary share and net asset value per ordinary share. Future sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, whether by us or by our existing shareholders, or the perception that sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our shares, which could decline significantly. We have incurred higher costs as a result of becoming a public company. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we had not incurred as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing in recent years. We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our ordinary shares, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. 35 Table of Contents 