Risk Factors” section and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • additions or departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • announcement of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • the passage of legislation, changes in interpretations of laws or other regulatory events or developments affecting us; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; 31 Table of Contents • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; • changes in general market and economic conditions; • changes or trends in our industry; • investors’ perception of our prospects; and • adverse resolution of any new or pending litigation against us. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle or defend litigation. Future sales of our ordinary shares, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our share price. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our ordinary shares in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. We have 73.6 million ordinary shares outstanding as of March 12, 2015. Of these shares, 15.3 million ordinary shares were sold in our initial public offering and are freely tradable in the United States, except for any ordinary shares purchased by our “affiliates” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. PikCo is entitled, under contracts providing for registration rights, to require us to register our ordinary shares owned by them with the SEC. Upon effectiveness of any registration statement, subject to lock-up agreements with the representatives of the underwriters, those ordinary shares will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. Sales of our ordinary shares or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell our ordinary shares. Any determination to pay dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors, and we may not pay any dividends. Accordingly, investors may only realize future gains on their investments if the price of their ordinary shares increases, which may never occur. Though we currently intend to pay dividends, any such determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors. The payment of cash distributions on ordinary shares is restricted under the terms of our Senior Secured Notes, Brazilian Debentures, and our CVIs. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to make any distributions on ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of our Senior Secured Notes, Brazilian Debentures and our CVIs. Furthermore, under the laws of Luxembourg, we are able to make distributions only to the extent that we have profits available and distributable reserves. Accordingly, investors may only realize future gains on their investments if the price of their ordinary shares increases, which may never occur. See “Financial Information—Dividend Distributions.” If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The market price of our ordinary shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our ordinary shares or its trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrade our ordinary shares or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. 32 Table of Contents Future equity issuances may dilute the holdings of ordinary shareholders and could materially affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We may in the future decide to offer additional equity to rise capital or for other purposes. Any such additional offering could reduce the proportionate ownership and voting interests of holders of our ordinary shares, as well as our earnings per ordinary share and net asset value per ordinary share. Future sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, whether by us or by our existing shareholders, or the perception that sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our shares, which could decline significantly. We have incurred higher costs as a result of becoming a public company. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we had not incurred as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing in recent years. We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our ordinary shares, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require significant expenditures and effort by management, and if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls, the market price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations and beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2015, our management will be required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. 