D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this annual report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before purchasing our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business operations. 2 Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We depend on the success of CureXcell, our only product candidate. We may be unable to obtain approval of CureXcell for treatment of diabetic foot ulcers or venous leg ulcers in the United States and other markets. At the present time, our focus is on obtaining regulatory approval for CureXcell, our only current product candidate. Our success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for CureXcell in the United States and in other markets. In order to support a Biologics License Application, or BLA, submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, we are conducting two pivotal Phase 3 trials. We cannot predict whether these studies will be successful and, even if successful, whether the FDA will require additional studies before we make a BLA submission, how long the FDA will take to review CureXcell following our BLA submission or whether the FDA will ever approve our BLA submission. Similarly, we cannot predict how long regulatory authorities outside of the United States will take to provide CureXcell with marketing authorization in their jurisdictions or whether they will ever provide such authorizations. The grant of regulatory approval in one or more countries does not assure the grant of regulatory approval by other countries. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. The failure to receive such regulatory approvals, especially in the United States, would have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. Because the results of earlier clinical trials do not necessarily predict future results, any product candidate we advance through clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. Clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical or preclinical trials. In addition, data obtained from trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Success in prior clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will generate the same results or otherwise provide adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a product candidate. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product, and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. Clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts. For example, if the results of our Phase 3 trials of CureXcell do not demonstrate significant efficacy, the prospects for approval of CureXcell would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if these trials fail to meet their primary statistical and clinical end points they will be disqualified for FDA approval in which case we would need to replace the failed study with a new Phase 3 trial, which would require significant additional capital, cause substantial delays in commercialization and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Delays in the completion of our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for CureXcell. Our two pivotal Phase 3 trials are currently ongoing. These clinical trials may be delayed or not be completed. Clinical trials may be delayed or may proceed less quickly than intended due to delays and difficulty in recruiting, enrolling and maintaining subjects. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including the failure to identify candidates that meet applicable enrollment criteria, competition from other clinical trial programs for the same indication as our product candidates and the inability to retain subjects in clinical trials due to the treatment protocol, personal issues, side effects or lack of efficacy. Our clinical trials may also be delayed if we suffer an interruption in the supply of CureXcell. In addition, one of our Phase 3 trials is in its early stages, and could be delayed if we fail to establish test sites and recruit physicians, patients and coordinators in the time frame we expect. In addition, our Phase 3 clinical trials or any of our other clinical trials may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; 3 • failure to pass inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, or other applicable requirements; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • changes in regulatory requirements and guidance; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial due to unforeseen costs resulting from enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies, increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties or other reasons. Delays in the completion of our trials would correspondingly delay our ability to apply for and receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product. Delays could also increase the costs associated with a particular trial. There is no assurance that we will have or be able to access the capital necessary to fund our operations for a longer period of time prior to commercialization or to fund increased costs for clinical trials. Accordingly, delays in the completion of our clinical trials would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may be required to complete additional Phase 3 trials in order to receive regulatory approval in the United States or in other countries. In order to provide BLA approval for a proposed indication, the FDA typically requires two well-controlled Phase 3 trials that demonstrate safety and effectiveness for that specific indication. The FDA has indicated to us that one robust, well-controlled Phase 3 trial that demonstrates the safety and efficacy of CureXcell for each of the proposed indications (diabetic foot ulcers, or DFU, and venous leg ulcers, or VLU) may be sufficient for approval of a BLA for both of those indications; however, the FDA is under no obligation to grant approval under these circumstances and may require us to complete additional Phase 3 trials for one or both indications. Completing additional trials would involve considerable additional expense and would delay our ability to begin the commercialization of CureXcell, each of which would require substantial additional capital that we may not have or be able to access. In addition, it would prevent us from implementing and executing our business plan on a timely basis, which could harm our growth and prospects. Accordingly, a requirement that we complete additional Phase 3 clinical trials would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Further, even if the FDA does provide approval on the basis of our two planned Phase 3 trials, it is possible that regulators in other jurisdictions, including Europe, may require additional trials in order to grant approval. We are a clinical stage biotechnology company with a history of operating losses. We expect to incur additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. Since our inception in 2008, we have been focused on research and development and have not recognized any revenue. Additionally, we have incurred losses since inception, largely reflecting research and development and general and administrative expenses, and experienced net losses of $25.5 million, $18.3 million and $7.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $68.2 million. In addition to our current clinical trials in the United States, we may be required to conduct and successfully complete significant additional clinical trials and other tests and audits before we apply for regulatory approval for CureXcell in the United States, the European Union and other markets in order to commercialize CureXcell and start generating revenue. As a result, we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant additional losses and we may never be profitable or achieve revenue. 4 Our limited history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We have a limited operating history. While we have obtained regulatory approval from the Israeli Ministry of Health for certain applications of CureXcell as a medical device, we have only conducted limited sales of CureXcell in Israel for clinical purposes as part of our research and development activities. We have not fully commercialized CureXcell in any jurisdiction, and we have not received regulatory approvals for CureXcell as a biologic product from the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or other foreign regulatory bodies for any applications. There remains substantial doubt regarding whether we will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to sell CureXcell in the United States, Europe or elsewhere and whether we will successfully commercialize this product. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate. We may need substantial additional capital in the future, which could cause dilution to our existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights, and if additional capital is not available, we may have to delay, reduce or cease operations. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through private and public offerings of our securities and have not recognized any revenue. We expect to generate revenue primarily through sales of CureXcell. However, we still have to receive the approvals necessary to market this product in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions outside of Israel. We expect this process will take at least several years to complete and to require substantial additional investment. In addition, before being able to market CureXcell, we would need to establish additional facilities to produce the product and hire and train a sales and marketing team, each of which would also require additional investment. There are many factors that could cause us to need additional funding prior to product launch. These include that our estimates of the capital requirements necessary to complete these activities may have been too low; that we run into difficulties with our clinical trials that delay their completion or otherwise require additional investment; that we are required to complete additional clinical trials in order to obtain regulatory approvals; and that our regulatory approvals become delayed, thereby delaying our product launch. In addition, we will need to raise capital in order to commercialize CureXcell, including to build manufacturing facilities and establish a sales and marketing team. In the event that these or other factors require that we obtain additional funding, we may not be able to raise this additional capital on reasonable terms or at all. Any additional funding may come from equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, licensing arrangements or any other means. Further, securing additional financing may divert our management from our day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize CureXcell. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to: • delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of CureXcell; • seek corporate partners for CureXcell on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to CureXcell, which we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Any such consequence may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects and on our ability to develop our pipeline products. 5 If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest in us will be diluted, and the terms of the new equity securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a shareholder. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also impose restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or to issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. In the event that we enter into collaborations or licensing arrangements in order to raise capital, we may be required to accept unfavorable terms, including relinquishing or licensing to a third party on unfavorable terms our rights to product candidates or intellectual property that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves or reserve for future potential arrangements when we might be able to achieve more favorable terms. Development and commercialization of CureXcell requires our successful completion of the regulatory approval process as well as ongoing regulatory compliance, and may suffer delays or fail. In the United States, the European Union and other markets, we will be required to apply for and receive marketing authorization before we can commercialize CureXcell. This process can be time consuming and complicated and may result in unanticipated delays. To secure marketing authorization, an applicant generally is required to submit an application that includes the data supporting preclinical and clinical safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacturing and control of the product, proposed labeling and additional information. Before marketing authorization is granted, regulatory authorities generally require the inspection of the facilities and quality systems (including those of third parties) at which the product candidate is manufactured and tested to assess compliance with strictly enforced cGMP, as well as potential audits of the non-clinical and clinical trial sites that generated the data cited in the marketing authorization application. In addition, if a product is approved, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and record-keeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submission of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and continued compliance with cGMP for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Although our contract manufacturer’s facility in Israel is cGMP-certified, as is the manufacturing facility of the American Red Cross, our outsourced manufacturer in the United States, we may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for any new manufacturing and quality control facilities we construct in order to commercialize our product. We cannot predict how long the applicable regulatory authority or agency in any given jurisdiction will take to grant marketing authorization or whether any such authorizations will ultimately be granted. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA and the EMA, have substantial discretion in the approval process, and the approval process and the requirements governing clinical trials vary from country to country. The policies of the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may change or may not be explicit, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of CureXcell. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States, Europe or elsewhere. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 6 Any delays or failures in obtaining or maintaining regulatory and marketing approval for CureXcell would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have no experience in marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so, and are therefore subject to certain risks in relation to the commercialization of CureXcell. We have not yet established a commercial organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of our single product candidate, CureXcell. Therefore, even if we receive approval to market CureXcell in the United States or other markets, in order to successfully commercialize CureXcell, we will need to build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities. This involves many challenges, such as recruiting and retaining talented personnel; training employees; setting the appropriate system of incentives; managing additional headcount; and integrating new business units into an existing corporate infrastructure. The development of our own sales infrastructure will involve substantial expense, much of which we will incur well in advance of any marketing or sales. Moreover, we do not have experience as a company in establishing a significant sales infrastructure, and we cannot be certain that we will successfully develop this capability. We will have to compete with other pharmaceutical, biotechnology and wound care companies to recruit, hire, train and retain personnel for medical affairs, marketing and sales. If we fail to establish an effective sales and marketing infrastructure, we will be unable to successfully commercialize CureXcell, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The commercial success of CureXcell will depend upon its degree of market acceptance. Even if it successfully obtains marketing approvals, CureXcell may not gain market acceptance by physicians and their teams, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. If CureXcell does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. The degree of market acceptance of CureXcell, if we receive marketing approval, will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the strength of our clinical data; • the willingness of physicians to administer our product and their acceptance of it as part of the medical department routine, which itself may be influenced by various factors including ease of use and the compensation that doctors receive for administering CureXcell relative to other alternative treatments; • the perceived risks of using a product derived from human blood; • our success in obtaining third-party coverage or reimbursement for CureXcell; • our ability to offer CureXcell for sale at a competitive price; • the efficacy and potential advantages of CureXcell relative to other advanced wound care products; • the prevalence and severity of side effects, if any; • our reputation and the reputation of CureXcell; • the efficacy, potential advantages and timing of introduction to the market of alternative treatments; • the shelf life of CureXcell and our ability to manage the logistics of the end user supply chain; and • our ability to reliably source sufficient raw materials and produce sufficient amounts of final product. 7 Failure to achieve market acceptance for CureXcell, if it is approved for commercial sale, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must receive adequate reimbursement policies for our product and the physicians that administer it in order to successfully commercialize CureXcell. Should we receive the approvals necessary to market CureXcell, we will still need to apply to government and other third-party payers for them to reimburse physicians and patients to administer and use our product. Newly-approved healthcare products face significant uncertainty regarding both whether they are covered and their levels of reimbursement. Government and other healthcare payers, including Medicare, are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and reimbursement levels. Even if CureXcell is approved by regulators, third-party payers may decline to cover it or may offer reimbursement rates that are insufficient to cover our cost to supply CureXcell or that otherwise fail to provide the revenue we expect to receive for the product. They may also set reimbursement rates for physicians who administer the product that are insufficient to cover the physicians’ costs or otherwise provide them with a disincentive to prescribe it. Further, once coverage and reimbursement rates are established, they may be changed or withdrawn in the future. The failure of government and other healthcare payers to cover or provide adequate reimbursement levels for CureXcell, could reduce its market acceptance, limit our growth and cause our revenue and results of operations to suffer. Further, delays in establishing coverage and reimbursement would delay the commercialization of our product, which would adversely affect our growth, operating results and financial position. Prices in many countries, including many in Europe, are subject to local regulation and certain biological products, such as blood-derived products, are subject to price controls in several of the world’s principal markets, including many countries within the European Union. In these jurisdictions, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. As a result, we might obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay or prevent our commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenue, if any, we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. The existence of direct and indirect price controls and pressures over our products could materially adversely affect our financial prospects and performance. Future changes in government regulation or in the administration of government healthcare programs could adversely affect our commercialization of our products. The United States and several other jurisdictions are considering, and have already enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that may affect our current and future clinical trials and commercial sales, if and when CureXcell receives marketing approval. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the market acceptance or demand for CureXcell; • the ability to set a price that we believe is fair for CureXcell; • our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and • the availability of capital. 8 We rely on a limited number of suppliers of whole blood in order to manufacture CureXcell. Our primary raw material for producing CureXcell is whole blood. We purchase it from the American Red Cross and currently, in Israel, we purchase it from Magen David Adom, or MDA, Israel’s national blood bank. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves risks. Specifically, our contract with the American Red Cross requires that we notify and seek pre-approval for significant changes to our manufacturing process, suppliers or operating procedures. This arrangement could delay our ability to make adjustments to our business, which could negatively impact our operations. Additionally, because of the short shelf life of our product, we do not have a banked inventory to use in the event of an interruption in supply. Accordingly, if our supplier in a given region becomes temporarily unable or unwilling to provide us with whole blood, we would be unable to produce CureXcell until this interruption ceases or we obtain an alternate supply. Further, if we were to permanently lose a supplier it may take a substantial amount of time and expense for us to secure other suppliers and we may be required to relocate our manufacturing to facilities closer to the new suppliers. We must coordinate closely with our suppliers in order to obtain our raw materials. Our need for a continuous supply of whole blood meeting certain specifications, often on short notice, involves risks. Our product has a short shelf life, which requires us to coordinate closely with each supplier in order to obtain the correct amount and type of raw materials on a day-to-day basis. Further, our regulatory approvals require using blood come from a donor meeting certain requirements, including for age and health. It may be difficult for our suppliers to provide us with the specific type of whole blood we need on short notice. If we are unable to obtain this supply on a regular basis it could make it difficult for us to meet our demand or could create logistical problems, either of which could adversely affect our current and future clinical trials and commercial sales if and when CureXcell receives marketing approval. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture our product. In the United States, the American Red Cross currently manufactures CureXcell for use in our clinical trials pursuant to a manufacturing agreement between the American Red Cross and us, which we refer to as the American Red Cross Manufacturing Agreement. Under this agreement, the American Red Cross performs the entire manufacturing process, including testing and quality assurance at its facility pursuant to the technical specifications provided by us, and then packages and ships the product to the various sites at which our clinical trials take place. Only American Red Cross personnel that have been trained by us may perform the services that the American Red Cross is required to provide under the American Red Cross Manufacturing Agreement. In Israel, the manufacturing of CureXcell is carried out by MDA technicians supervised by our employees at the MDA’s central facility where we have our own clean room pursuant to an agreement between us and MDA, which we refer to as the MDA Agreement. Accordingly, we do not directly control all aspects of the manufacturing of CureXcell. A failure by the American Red Cross or MDA to follow cGMP in the manufacturing of CureXcell may require that we recall and destroy the CureXcell that they produce and suspend their manufacturing. The American Red Cross or MDA may delay or cease altogether manufacturing CureXcell for us for many reasons, including because their facility is affected by a war, terrorist attack, earthquake, fire, explosion, equipment or power failure, or because they have failed to adhere to cGMP. In any of these situations, our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period, we could experience a loss of raw materials, work in process or finished goods inventory and our ability to operate our business would be harmed. In addition, in any such event, the construction or contracting of new manufacturing and storage facilities, and obtaining regulatory approval for the new facilities could be expensive and time-consuming. During this period, we may be unable to manufacture CureXcell, which could delay our clinical trials and, in the future, materially adversely affect our revenue. 9 The ability of our third-party manufacturers to continue manufacturing and supplying CureXcell depends on their continued adherence to current good manufacturing practices regulations. The manufacturing process for CureXcell is governed by detailed cGMP regulations. It is subject to the risk of product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper operation of equipment, validation activities or operator error. Failure by third-party manufacturers and quality operations units to adhere to established regulations or to meet a specification or procedure set forth in cGMP requirements could require that a CureXcell batch or materials be rejected and destroyed. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes or quality requirements for our products could result in reduced production yields, defects and other supply disruptions. Adherence to cGMP regulations and the effectiveness of our quality control systems are periodically assessed through inspections of manufacturing facilities by regulatory authorities. Such inspections could result in deficiency citations, which would require action to correct those deficiencies to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authorities. If critical deficiencies are noted or if recurrences are not prevented, we may have to recall CureXcell batches or suspend operations until appropriate measures are implemented. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in CureXcell or in the manufacturing facilities in which CureXcell is or will be made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed to investigate and remedy the contamination. Our manufacturing partners may be unable or unwilling to meet applicable regulatory and quality requirements. Any adverse developments affecting manufacturing operations for CureXcell may result in delays, inventory shortages, batch failures, withdrawals or recalls, or other interruptions in the supply of CureXcell, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our current and future clinical trials and commercial sales if and when CureXcell receives marketing approval. Since cGMP reflects ever-evolving standards, manufacturing processes and procedures must be regularly updated to comply with cGMP. These changes may cause us to incur additional costs and may adversely impact our results of operations. For example, more sensitive testing assays (if and when they become available) may be required or existing procedures or processes may require revalidation, all of which may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the manufacturing of CureXcell. The short shelf life of our product exposes us to certain risks. The FDA protocol for our clinical trials currently restricts the shelf life of a dose of CureXcell to seven days from completion of production, provided it is kept refrigerated between two to eight degrees Celsius. This exposes us to risks associated with production, storage and delivery of products with short shelf lives. These include the need to develop systems that can manage the complex logistics of obtaining the raw materials for CureXcell, manufacturing it and delivering each unit for administration to the patient, all in a very short period of time and within the prescribed temperature range. We will also need to anticipate the date CureXcell will be administered, coordinate with our suppliers, ensure timely delivery and coordinate the transfer of product between facilities to match the then current patient and clinical trial needs. If we fail to properly manage these logistics, we could gain a reputation for unreliability, which could harm our ability to complete our clinical trials and market acceptance of our product. We could also have to dispose of units that have expired at unacceptably high rates. We depend on a sole supplier to obtain the transfusion and infusion bags in which our products are processed and packaged. As CureXcell is a biologic product with living cells, it must be processed and packaged in kits consisting of sterile plastic transfusion and infusion bags that are designed to maintain the proper environment for CureXcell. We procure these bags from Maco Pharma, our sole supplier, which manufactures the bags on the basis of technological specifications that we provide pursuant to a manufacturing agreement. This agreement provides that Maco Pharma must manufacture the bags exclusively for us and that we must purchase the bags exclusively from it. The agreement also requires us to purchase a minimum amount of bags during each year. The agreement has an initial term of six years and is terminable by either party upon nine months’ notice. In the event that this agreement were to be terminated, identifying and qualifying an alternative source would require time and effort which may interfere with our ability to package CureXcell both for purposes of current and future clinical trials and commercial sales if and when CureXcell receives marketing approval. In addition, regulatory authorities could require that we conduct additional studies in support of a new supplier, which could result in significant additional costs or delays. Furthermore, we may not be able to procure an alternative source for CureXcell packages at all or at comparable quality or competitive prices or upon fair and reasonable contractual terms and conditions. Any interruption of our supply of bags in which to package CureXcell in a timely manner, or at all, would adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, under our agreement with Maco Pharma, we are obligated to provide Maco Pharma with a right of first refusal for the manufacturing of any products containing specifications similar to those used in the manufacture of bags under the agreement. 10 Our products are derived from human blood, and there is an inherent risk of biological contamination and virus transmission in blood-derived products. We derive CureXcell from donated human whole blood. Many disease-causing viruses, bacteria and other pathogens are present in the blood of infected individuals and if these infected individuals donate blood, the blood and possibly its byproducts would contain those pathogens. As a result, the FDA, EMA and other regulatory agencies extensively regulate the sourcing and screening of blood products and the production of products derived from whole blood. We rely on our suppliers to maintain compliance with these regulations. If any of our suppliers fail to adhere to regulations regarding the sourcing and screening of their blood or if the blood supply of any of our suppliers becomes contaminated, we could lose our ability to obtain blood from that supplier. If contaminated blood leads to our product becoming contaminated, we could become subject to substantial liability. If any of these were to occur, our reputation could be substantially harmed. The safety concerns associated with blood-derived products in general may affect our ability to market our products. A significant contamination of the blood supply or studies that raise or substantiate concerns about the safety of our or other similar products could negatively impact public perception of all blood-derived products, which would adversely affect market acceptance of our product. Further, any failure in screening, whether by our manufacturers or manufacturers of other products, could adversely affect our reputation, the support we receive from the medical community and overall demand for our products. New infectious diseases emerge in the human population from time to time. If a new infectious disease has a period during which the causative agent is present in the bloodstream but symptoms are not present, it is possible that blood donations could be contaminated by that infectious agent and remain undetected. Typically, early in an outbreak of a new disease, tests for the causative agent do not exist. During this early phase, our suppliers will need to rely on screening of donors (e.g., for behavioral risk factors or physical symptoms) to reduce the risk of blood contamination. Screening methods are generally less sensitive and specific than a direct test as a means of identifying potentially contaminated whole blood units. During the early phase of an outbreak of a new infectious disease, our ability to manufacture safe products would depend on the manufacturing process’ capacity to inactivate or remove the infectious agent. To the extent that a product’s manufacturing process is inadequate to inactivate or remove an infectious agent, our ability to manufacture and distribute that product would be impaired. If a new infectious disease were to emerge in the human population, the regulatory and public health authorities could impose precautions to limit the transmission of the disease that would impair our ability to procure whole blood, manufacture our products or both. Such precautionary measures could be taken before there is conclusive medical or scientific evidence that a disease poses a risk for blood-derived products. 11 We rely on arrangements and third parties for the conduct of our clinical trials and for the provision of other services. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct our trials, which limits our control over these activities. The third-party contractors may not assign as great of a priority to our clinical development programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs directly and, accordingly, may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct the studies or our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or with our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, or if their performance is substandard or fails to meet regulatory requirements, our clinical trials may be negatively affected and we may be required to replace them. The replacement of these third parties would result in increased costs and delays, primarily due to the training and familiarization that their replacements would need to undergo. Consequently, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for, and to commercialize, CureXcell would be delayed. The third-party contractors may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If the third-party contractors work with our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Our commercialization plans for CureXcell will require that we establish substantial manufacturing capacity, an undertaking that will involve a substantial amount of risk. Should we receive the approvals necessary to market CureXcell, we will need to establish and obtain approval for the manufacturing facilities necessary to produce the quantities of product we hope to market. This effort will involve many risks. We will need to find space for these facilities that is close to our suppliers, meets our production needs and has ready access to the companies that ship our products. We may be unable to obtain production space that meets these requirements at reasonable cost or at all. We will also incur substantial expenses in order to build and outfit these new facilities, and the final costs to build them may be more than we anticipate. In addition, we may be asked by the FDA to conduct additional studies to obtain approval for the new facilities, which may be expensive and delay approval. We may fail to complete new manufacturing facilities on time or may not be able to obtain the regulatory and quality approvals, which would delay our ability to market CureXcell. We may also fail to properly construct the facilities, which could lead to problems, inefficiencies or delays in manufacturing. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. CureXcell may cause unanticipated and undesirable side effects or have other properties that are currently unknown to us. Should we receive the approvals necessary to market CureXcell, we expect that, like with most pharmaceutical products, our approval label for CureXcell will list certain side effects. If we or others identify problems with CureXcell or its underlying technology, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, problems with our manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, the following consequences, among others, may occur: • restrictions on the clinical trials, marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from clinical trials or the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; • fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials; • harm to our reputation, reduced demand for our products and loss of market acceptance; 12 • refusal by the regulatory authority to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Any of these events could adversely affect our current and future clinical trials and commercial sales if and when CureXcell receives marketing approval, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We could be subject to product liability lawsuits, which could result in costly and time-consuming litigation and significant liabilities. The development of biologic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. CureXcell may be alleged or found to be harmful or to contain harmful substances. This would expose us to substantial risk of litigation and liability or may force us to discontinue production of CureXcell. Although we have product liability insurance covering up to $10 million in claims, the coverage may not insure us against all claims made and in some instances we may be required to pay substantial deductibles. Product liability insurance is costly and often limited in scope. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims that could impede or prevent commercialization of CureXcell. Furthermore, a product liability claim could damage our reputation, whether or not such a claim has merit or is covered by insurance. A product liability claim against us or the withdrawal of a product from the market could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Additionally, product liability lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We face competition from potential changes in medical practice and technology and the possibility that our competitors may develop products, treatments or procedures that are similar, more advanced, safer or more effective than ours. The medical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to significant technological and practice changes. We may face competition from many difference sources. Possible competitors include medical practitioners, pharmaceutical and wound care companies, academic and medical institutions, governmental agencies and public and private research institutions, among others. Should any competitor’s product candidates receive regulatory or marketing approval prior to ours, they may establish a strong market position and be difficult to displace, or will diminish the need for our products. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products, treatments or procedures that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any product that we may develop. Currently, there are a number of commercially available AWC products for the treatment of chronic and other hard-to-heal wounds, including, but not limited to, negative pressure wound therapy, or NPWT, skin substitutes, amniotic allografts, hyperbaric oxygen therapy and other treatment approaches. In addition, we licensed a patent related to the production of macrophages using osmotic shock, which we refer to as the Danon patent. Our current, more effective processes and products are covered by different patents. When the Danon patent expires in June 2015, MDA, which currently manufactures CureXcell in Israel, or any other party, can develop, manufacture and commercialize products that could compete against our products using the manufacturing process described in the Danon patent or design another process that circumvents the intellectual property directed to our current manufacturing processes. If any competing products are cheaper, more effective, safer or more marketable than CureXcell, our business could be materially adversely affected. 13 Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we may have. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or wound care industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These companies compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be disrupted. Our future financial performance and ability to successfully commercialize CureXcell, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. We expect to expand our work force and train, motivate and manage additional employees. Even following expansion, our facilities, personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to manage future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may not be successful in using our proprietary cell activation technology to establish a platform for the development and commercialization of a broad range of regenerative medicine products. A key element of our long-term strategy is to use our proprietary cell activation technology to establish a platform for the development and commercialization of a broad range of regenerative medicine products, including product candidates for non-wound indications. Although we plan to expand our pipeline of product candidates, we may not be able to identify or develop product candidates that are safe and effective. Even if we are successful in building our pipeline, the potential product candidates that we identify may not be suitable for clinical development, including as a result of being shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate that they are unlikely to receive marketing approval and achieve market acceptance. Research and development to identify new product candidates requires substantial technical, financial and human resources, and we may expend these resources on product candidates that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. If we do not establish a platform for the development and commercialization of a broad range of regenerative medicine products, we may face difficulty in obtaining revenues in future periods, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, which currently include Nissim Mashiach (our President and Chief Executive Officer), Michael Molyneaux, MD (our Chief Medical Officer) and Mark Page (our Chief Financial Officer). The loss of the services of these personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials, the commercialization of CureXcell or otherwise affect our ability to manage our company effectively and to carry out our business plan. Members of our senior management team may resign at any time. A high demand exists for senior management and other key personnel in the biotechnology and medical technology industries and we may not be able to continue to retain and attract such personnel. 14 Our growth and success also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified and skilled sales and marketing, research and development, operational, managerial and finance personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and the unexpected loss of an employee with a particular skill could materially adversely affect our operations until a replacement can be found and trained. While we have not experienced issues retaining our personnel, if we cannot retain our existing skilled scientific and operational personnel and attract and retain sufficiently-skilled additional scientific and operational personnel as required for our operations on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out our business plan. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli shekel, as well as other non-U.S. currencies, may negatively affect our earnings. The dollar is our functional and reporting currency. However, a portion of our operating expenses is incurred in shekels. As a result, we are exposed to the risks that the shekel may appreciate relative to the dollar, or, if the shekel instead devalues relative to the dollar, that the inflation rate in Israel may exceed the rate of devaluation of the shekel, or that the timing of that devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In any such event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of appreciation (if any) of the shekel against the dollar. For example, the rate of devaluation of the dollar against the shekel was 7.5% and 2.3% in 2013 and 2012, respectively, which was compounded by inflation in Israel at a rate of 1.8% and 1.6%, respectively. This had the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel by 9.3% and 3.9% respectively, in such years. This trend was reversed in 2014, during which the dollar appreciated relative to the shekel by 10.7%, and the rate of inflation in Israel was negative (0.2%). If the trend of 2013 and 2012 returns, however, and the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations in the future. In addition, we intend to commercialize CureXcell in Europe and other geographical markets, such as Japan. Accordingly we may in the future generate revenue in currencies other than the dollar and the shekel, such as the Euro or the Yen. In that case, our operating results and cash flows may also subject to fluctuations due to changes in the relative values of the dollar and these foreign currencies. These fluctuations could negatively affect our operating results and could cause them to vary from quarter to quarter. Our research and development activities could be affected or delayed as a result of possible restrictions on animal testing. Many of our research and development activities with respect to CureXcell involve the use of animal testing. This type of activity has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and numerous other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing by, amongst other things, lobbying for legislation and regulation in these areas. If the use of animal testing is restricted by legislation or regulation it may adversely affect our business. Potential future acquisitions of or investments in companies or technologies may distract our management, may disrupt our business, negatively impact our financial condition and may not yield the returns expected. We may acquire or make investments in businesses, technologies or products, whether complementary or otherwise, as a means to expand our business, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, we may be unable to make the acquisitions or investments on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we have no prior experience in integrating acquisitions and we could experience difficulties incorporating an acquired company’s personnel, operations, technology or product offerings into our own or in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. We may also incur unanticipated liabilities. The financing of any such acquisition or investment, or of a significant general expansion of our business, may not be readily available on favorable terms. Any significant acquisition or investment, or major expansion of our business, may require us to explore external financing sources, such as an offering of our equity or debt securities. We cannot be certain that these financing sources will be available to us or that we will be able to negotiate commercially reasonable terms for any such financing, or that our actual cash requirements for an acquisition, investment or expansion will not be greater than anticipated. In addition, any indebtedness that we may incur in such a financing may inhibit our operational flexibility, while any equity securities that we may issue in connection with such a financing would dilute our shareholders. Any such difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of any such acquisition or investment. 15 Regulatory approval for CureXcell may be limited to specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated, and the prescription or promotion of off-label uses could adversely affect our business. Any regulatory approval that we receive for CureXcell would be limited to those specific indications for which CureXcell has been deemed safe and effective by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority. Additionally, labeling restrictions may also limit the manner in which a product may be used. For example, we anticipate that CureXcell’s approval, if any, will be limited to wounds without any exposed bone or tendons and that it will not be indicated for pressure and post-surgical wounds. Physicians may, however prescribe a product for an unapproved, or “off-label,” use or may use a product in a manner that is inconsistent with the manufacturer’s labeling. To the extent such off-label use is pervasive and results in reduced efficacy or other adverse effects, the reputation of CureXcell in the marketplace may suffer. Furthermore, while physicians may choose to prescribe treatments for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those approved by regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authorities. Although regulatory authorities generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians, they do restrict communications by companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In the United States, off-label promotion by pharmaceutical companies has resulted in significant litigation under the U.S. False Claims Act, violations of which may result in substantial civil penalties and fines. More generally, failure to follow the rules and guidelines of regulatory agencies relating to promotion and advertising, such as that promotional materials not be false or misleading, can result in refusal to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, product recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. The implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business. Pursuant to the March 2010 adoption of the healthcare reform law in the United States, substantial changes are being made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including programs to extend medical benefits to millions of individuals who currently lack insurance coverage. The changes contemplated by the healthcare reform law are subject to rule-making and implementation timelines that extend for several years, and this uncertainty limits our ability to forecast changes that may occur in the future. However, implementation has already begun with respect to certain significant cost-saving measures under the healthcare reform law, for example with respect to several government healthcare programs that may cover the cost of our future products, including Medicaid, Medicare Parts B and D, and these efforts could have a materially adverse impact on our future financial prospects and performance. 16 For example, in order for a manufacturer’s products to be reimbursed by federal funding under Medicaid, the manufacturer must enter into a Medicaid rebate agreement with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and pay certain rebates to the states based on utilization data provided by each state to the manufacturer and to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, and pricing data provided by the manufacturer to the federal government. The states share this savings with the federal government, and sometimes implement their own additional supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, the rebate amount for most branded drug products was previously equal to a minimum of 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price, or AMP, or the AMP less Best Price, whichever is greater. Effective January 1, 2010, the healthcare reform law generally increases the size of the Medicaid rebates paid by manufacturers for single source and innovator multiple source (brand name) drug product from a minimum of 15.1% to a minimum of 23.1% of the AMP, subject to certain exceptions, for example, for certain clotting factors, the increase is limited to a minimum of 17.1% of the AMP. For non-innovator multiple source (generic) products, the rebate percentage is increased from a minimum of 11.0% to a minimum of 13.0% of AMP. In 2010, the healthcare reform law also newly extended this rebate obligation to prescription drugs covered by Medicaid managed care organizations. These increases in required rebates may adversely affect our future financial prospects and performance. The healthcare reform law also creates new rebate obligations for our products under Medicare Part D, a partial, voluntary prescription drug benefit created by the United States federal government primarily for persons 65 years old and over. The Part D drug program is administered through private insurers that contract with CMS. Beginning in 2011, the healthcare reform law generally requires that in order for a drug manufacturer’s products to be reimbursed under Medicare Part D, the manufacturer must enter into a Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program agreement with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and reimburse each Medicare Part D plan sponsor an amount equal to 50% savings for the manufacturer’s brand name drugs and biologics which the Part D plan sponsor has provided to its Medicare Part D beneficiaries who are in the “donut hole” (or a gap in Medicare Part D coverage for beneficiaries who have expended certain amounts for drugs). The Part D plan sponsor is responsible for calculating and providing the discount directly to its beneficiaries and for reporting these amounts paid to CMS’s contractor, which notifies drug manufacturers of the rebate amounts it must pay to each Part D plan sponsor. The rebate requirement could adversely affect our future financial performance, particularly if contracts with Part D plans cannot be favorably renegotiated or the Part D plan sponsors fail to accurately calculate payments due in a manner that overstates our rebate obligation. The healthcare reform law also introduced a biosimilar pathway that will permit companies to obtain FDA approval of generic versions of existing biologics based upon reduced documentation and data requirements deemed sufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy than are required for the pioneer biologics. The new law provides that a biosimilar application may be submitted as soon as four years after the reference product is first licensed, and that the FDA may not make approval of an application effective until 12 years after the reference product was first licensed. With the likely introduction of biosimilars in the United States, we expect in the future to face greater competition from biosimilar products, including a possible increase in patent challenges. The FDA has reported meeting with sponsors who are interested in developing biosimilar products, and is developing regulations to implement the abbreviated regulatory review pathway. 17 Regarding access to our products, the healthcare reform law established and provided significant funding for a Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to coordinate and fund Comparative Effectiveness Research, or CER. While the stated intent of CER is to develop information to guide providers to the most efficacious therapies, outcomes of CER could influence the reimbursement or coverage for therapies that are determined to be less cost-effective than others. Should any of our products be determined to be less cost-effective than alternative therapies, the levels of reimbursement for these products, or the willingness to reimburse at all, could be impacted, which could materially impact our future financial prospects and results. We may be limited in the promotional claims we can make and may not be able to use information about our competitors to promote or market CureXcell without incurring significant regulatory or enforcement risks. Various U.S. governmental agencies, including the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, regulate the promotion and advertising of FDA approved medical products. Promotional materials and statements must not be false or misleading. Among other things, the FDA requires that promotional claims be supported by “substantial evidence,” which requires adequate, well-controlled clinical trials. Promotional claims must also reflect “fair balance” between the risks and benefits of a medical product. The FDA also has found comparative claims to be “false and misleading” when they are not supported by adequate, well-controlled, head-to-head comparison trials. Disclaimers that the comparative claims are not based on head-to-head trials may not be sufficient to insulate the responsible party from an FDA or FTC enforcement action. False and misleading advertising and promotion is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and subjects the responsible party to sanctions including, but not limited to, warning letters, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Additionally, a product is misbranded under the regulations if, in an effort to promote the product, a responsible party makes a false or misleading representation with respect to a competing drug, device or biologic. We have not conducted head-to-head trials with any other AWC therapy. As a result, we will be limited in our ability to market CureXcell using available data from separate trials of competing therapies. If we decide to market CureXcell’s benefits as compared to other AWC therapies, we will need to conduct head-to-head clinical trials which may be time consuming and expensive and may not be successful. Certain of our business practices could become subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, as well as to lawsuits brought by private citizens. Failure to comply with applicable law or an adverse decision in lawsuits may result in adverse consequences to us. The laws governing our conduct in the United States are enforceable by criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Violations of laws such as the FDCA the Public Health Service Act, the U.S. False Claims Act, provisions of the U.S. Social Security Act, including the provision known as the “Anti-Kickback Law,” or any regulations promulgated under their authority, may result in various administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, jail sentences, fines or exclusion from federal and state programs, as may be determined by Medicare, Medicaid, other regulatory authorities and the courts. We may come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government authorities or our practices may be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations or prompt lawsuits by private citizen “relators” under federal or state false claims laws. 18 For example, under the Anti-Kickback Law, and similar state laws and regulations, even common business arrangements, such as discounted terms and volume incentives for customers in a position to recommend or choose drugs and devices for patients, such as physicians and hospitals, can result in substantial legal penalties, including, among others, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs. As a result, arrangements with potential referral sources must be structured with care to comply with applicable requirements. Also, certain business practices, such as payment of consulting fees to healthcare providers, sponsorship of educational or research grants, charitable donations, interactions with healthcare providers and financial support for continuing medical education programs, must be conducted within narrowly prescribed and controlled limits to avoid any possibility of wrongfully influencing healthcare providers to prescribe or purchase particular products or of rewarding past prescribing. In addition, significant enforcement activity has taken place under federal and state false claims act statutes and violations of the U.S. False Claims Act can result in treble damages, and penalty of up to $11,000 for each false claim submitted for payment. The U.S. False Claims Act, as well as certain state false claims acts, permit relators to file complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states). These relators may be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries and have been active in pursuing cases against pharmaceutical companies. Where practices have been found to involve improper incentives to use products, the submission of false claims, or other improper conduct, government investigations and assessments of penalties against manufacturers have resulted in substantial damages and fines. In addition, to avoid exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, many manufacturers have been required to enter into corporate integrity agreements that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. Failure to satisfy requirements under the FDCA can also result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including injunctions or consent decrees that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. To enhance compliance with applicable healthcare laws, and mitigate potential liability in the event of noncompliance, regulatory authorities, such as the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, have recommended the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive health care compliance program that generally contains the elements of an effective compliance and ethics program described in Section 8B2.1 of the U.S. Sentencing Commission Guidelines Manual. Increasing numbers of U.S.-based pharmaceutical companies have such programs. As CureXcell is not yet approved for marketing in the United States, we have not adopted U.S. healthcare compliance and ethics programs that generally incorporate the OIG’s recommendations, but even if we do, we may still be unable to avoid any compliance issues. In addition, we are subject to analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payers, including private insurers; state and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances. Many of these laws differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, thus complicating compliance efforts. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, including, without limitation, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, it may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from participation in government healthcare programs, which could also materially affect our business. 19 As a public company with securities registered under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented policies mandating compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we may operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the United States. Our internal control policies and procedures may not be sufficient to effectively protect us against reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover the costs and expenses that may be incurred because of injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Additional or more stringent laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial capital costs and operating expenses and may be required to obtain consents to comply with any of these or certain other laws or regulations and the terms and conditions of any permits required pursuant to such laws and regulations, including costs to modify our operations or perform other corrective actions at our respective facilities. In addition, fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance with environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations or for the failure to have, or comply with the terms and conditions of, required environmental or other permits or consents. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain trade secret protection for our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, our products and their uses, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We rely on proprietary information (such as trade secrets, know-how and confidential information) to protect our intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patentable, or that we believe is best protected by means that do not require public disclosure. We generally seek to protect this proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements, or consulting, services or employment agreements that contain non-disclosure and non-use provisions with our employees, consultants, contractors, scientific advisors and third parties. However, we may fail to enter into the necessary agreements, and even if entered into, these agreements may be breached or otherwise fail to prevent disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary information, may be limited as to their term and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure or use of proprietary information. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our suppliers and service providers and could lose future trade secret protection if any unauthorized disclosure of such information occurs. In addition, our proprietary information may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. To the extent that our employees, consultants, contractors, scientific advisors and other third parties use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our and relevant third parties’ proprietary rights, failure to obtain or maintain protection for our proprietary information could adversely affect our competitive business position and if third parties are able to establish that we are using their proprietary information without their permission, we may be required to obtain a license to that information, or if such a license is not available, re-design our products to avoid any such unauthorized use or temporarily delay or permanently stop manufacturing or sales of the affected products. Furthermore, laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets where we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. Any of the foregoing could deteriorate our competitive advantages, undermine the trade secret and contractual protections afforded to our confidential information and have material adverse effects on our business. 20 We also rely on physical and electronic security measures to protect our proprietary information, but these security measures may be breached or may not provide adequate protection for our property. There is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize our proprietary information to our competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to detect or prevent the unauthorized use of such information or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Some of our employees were previously employed at blood banks, universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including potential competitors. While we take steps to prevent our employees from using the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims successfully, in addition to paying monetary damages and possible ongoing royalties, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. We may receive only limited protection, or no protection, from our issued patents and patent applications. We have four patent families on file covering processes and resulting activated white blood cell compositions that we developed, and their use. From one of those families we have been granted three patents. One patent in each of the United States and the European Union has claims covering our process for producing activated white blood cell compositions, and one patent in Australia has claims covering our process of producing activated white blood cell compositions, the compositions themselves, and their use in treating wounds. However, the patent applications relating to our products, processes or technologies may not result in patents being issued, the claims that issue may have limited or no coverage of our products and technologies, and any patents that have been issued may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property or afford us patent protection for any significant period of time. Additionally, the enforceability or ownership of any issued patents may be challenged by third parties, and patents that we hold may be found by a judicial authority or the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or other relevant patent office or governmental authority, to be invalid or unenforceable. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to or held by us. In addition, we licensed the Danon patent, which relates to the production of macrophages using osmotic shock. Our current, more effective processes and products are covered by different patents. When the Danon patent expires in June 2015, MDA, which currently manufactures CureXcell in Israel, or any other party can develop, manufacture and commercialize products using the manufacturing process described in the Danon patent or design another process that circumvents the intellectual property directed to our current manufacturing processes. Further, the patents directed to the processes and products we developed will expire or they may otherwise cease to provide meaningful competitive advantage, and we may be unable to adequately develop new technologies and obtain future patent protection to preserve our competitive advantage or avoid adverse effects on our business. 21 At present, we consider the intellectual property relating to our use of hypo-osmotic shock to activate white blood cells, the technology that underlies CureXcell, to be material to the operation of our business as a whole. Because our issued patents cover the process of manufacturing CureXcell, they offer protection against competition that is, to some extent, more limited than the protection provided by patents that claim products or chemical structures that were previously unknown. To the extent our issued patents remain limited to process claims, they may be less protective and it may be difficult for us to detect infringing products and enforce our patents against them. If a competitor were able to successfully design around our patents, we may not be able to block competition, and furthermore the competitor’s products may be more effective or commercially successful than our products. Further, the exclusivity of our ownership of our issued United States patent may be subject to our receipt of additional assignments from certain inventors. These inventors have previously executed assignments to us in connection with certain of the provisional applications related to the issued United States patent and we are beginning the process of obtaining confirmatory assignments from them. If patents covering CureXcell in various jurisdictions were subject to a successful challenge, our business and competitive advantage could be significantly affected. In addition, the patent landscape in the biotechnology field is highly uncertain and involves complex legal, factual and scientific questions, and changes in either patent laws or in the interpretation of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value and strength of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Particularly in recent years in the United States, there have been several major legislative developments and court decisions that have affected patent laws in significant ways. In addition, we may fail to apply for or be unable to obtain patents necessary to protect our technology, for example, due to prior uses of or claims to similar processes, or products or enforce our patents due to lack of information about the exact use of our process by third parties. Even if patents are issued to us, they may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from using similar technology or marketing similar products, or limit the length of time our technologies and products have patent protection. Our material patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after their filing, if at all, and because publications of discoveries in scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in such patent applications (depending on the laws applicable in the relevant country at the time of filing). As a result, the patents we own and license may be invalidated in the future, and the patent applications we own and license may not be granted. For example, if a third party has also filed a patent application covering an invention similar to one covered in one of our patent applications, we may be required to participate in an adversarial proceeding known as an “interference proceeding,” declared by the USPTO or its foreign counterparts, to determine priority of invention. Also, as of March 16, 2013, the U.S. transitioned to a “first-to-file” system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and our efforts in them could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our anticipated patent position. In addition, if a third party prevails in such a proceeding and obtains an issued patent, we may be prevented from practicing technology or marketing products covered by that patent. Additionally, patents and patent applications owned by third parties may prevent us from pursuing certain opportunities such as entering into specific markets or developing certain products. Finally, we may choose to enter into markets where certain competitors have patents or patent protection over technology that may impede our ability to compete effectively. 22 Our currently issued patents directed to the processes and products we developed are nominally due to expire in 2030, and the Danon patent, which we licensed before we developed our current processes and products, expires in June 2015. However, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, and although such delays may entitle us to patent term extensions, it is possible that, before CureXcell can be commercialized in additional jurisdictions and/or before any of our future products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Our pending and future patent applications may not lead to the issuance of patents or, if issued, the patents may not be issued in a form that will provide us with any competitive advantage. We also cannot guarantee that: • any of our present or future patents or patent claims or other intellectual property rights will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; • our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages or prevent competitors from making or selling competing products; • our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our agreements with third parties, financial constraints, market realities, competitive concerns or other factors; • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; • our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak; or • we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against, or to license our technology to, others and collect royalties or other payments. In addition, our competitors or others may design around our patents or protected technologies. Effective protection of our intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some countries, and even if available, we may fail to pursue or obtain necessary intellectual property protection in such countries, including because filing, prosecuting, maintaining and defending patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries, such as China, may not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, especially with respect to method claims. As a result, our intellectual property may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and we may be unable to prevent such competitors from importing those infringing products into territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as in the United States or into jurisdictions in which we do not have patent protection. These products may compete with our product candidates and our patents and other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing in those jurisdictions. 23 In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. Such lawsuits could entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. Lawsuits may ultimately be unsuccessful and may also subject us to counterclaims and cause our intellectual property rights to be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or held to be unenforceable. Additionally, unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Any failure to detect or identify unauthorized use of, and otherwise adequately protect, our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, including by reducing the demand for our products. Any reported adverse events involving counterfeit products that purport to be our products could harm our reputation and the sale of our products. Moreover, if we are required to commence litigation related to unauthorized use, whether as a plaintiff or defendant, such litigation would be time-consuming, force us to incur significant costs and divert our attention and the efforts of our management and other employees, which could, in turn, result in lower revenue and higher expenses. If we are unable to protect our CureXcell trademark from infringement or other violation, our business prospects may be harmed. We own the trademark CureXcell, and have registered this trademark in the United States and Israel. Although we take steps to monitor the possible infringement or misuse of this trademark, it is possible that third parties may infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights. Any unauthorized use of our trademark could harm our reputation or commercial interests. In addition, our enforcement against third-party infringers or violators may be unduly expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome may be an inadequate remedy. We may be subject to claims that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our development, marketing or sale of CureXcell may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may be subsequently issued and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. There may also be issued patents held by third parties that may be infringed or otherwise violated by our products, technologies and other activities, and we do not know whether or to what extent we are infringing or otherwise violating third party patents. We may also be subject to claims that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. Third parties could therefore bring claims against us or our potential strategic partners that would cause us to incur substantial expenses, including litigation costs or costs associated with settlement, and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if such a claim were brought against us, we could be temporarily or permanently enjoined or otherwise forced to temporarily delay or permanently stop manufacturing or trials and sales of CureXcell. If we are found to be infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the patent or other intellectual property rights of a third party, or in order to avoid or settle claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both, which could be substantial. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property, or such rights might be restrictive and limit our present and future activities. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened claims, we or our potential strategic partners are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. 24 There have been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. For example, in May 2014, Cognate Bioservices, Inc. filed a motion in an ongoing litigation matter involving one of our former employees seeking leave to file an amended complaint to add us as a defendant. The proposed amended complaint includes allegations of violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, misappropriation of products and misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company in the United States, we face a greater risk of being involved in such litigation. In addition to possible infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference, opposition, re-examination and similar proceedings before the USPTO and its foreign counterparts, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to CureXcell. Additionally, recent legislative changes to U.S. patent laws under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (signed into law on September 16, 2011) include new procedures for third parties to challenge issued patents in the USPTO, and lower evidentiary standards or other advantages to the challenger may apply in certain USPTO proceedings compared to litigation in courts. Third parties could attempt to use these or other procedures to invalidate our patents or prevent us from enforcing them. Furthermore, the cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. A negative outcome could result in liability for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees if, for example, we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. A finding of infringement could prevent us from developing, marketing or selling a product or force us to cease some or all of our business operations. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace, and patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. For example, Israeli labor courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer, which have been recognized by the courts, such as the protection of a company’s trade secrets or other intellectual property. We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business. We have invested and expect to continue to invest a significant amount of resources in the development of intellectual property by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee during the scope of his or her employment with a company are regarded as ‘‘service inventions,’’ which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between the employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee, the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, or the Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, shall determine whether the employee is entitled to remuneration for his or her inventions. Recent decisions by the Committee have created uncertainty in this area, as it held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration or the criteria or circumstances under which an employee’s assignment of all rights and/or waiver of his or her right to remuneration will be disregarded. Although our employees have agreed to assign to us service invention rights, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. 25 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Ordinary Shares The trading market for our ordinary shares is not always active, liquid and orderly, which may inhibit the ability of our shareholders to sell ordinary shares. Prior to our IPO in August 2014, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. Since that time, the trading market for our ordinary shares has not always been active, liquid or orderly. The lack of an active market at times may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies by using our shares as consideration. The market price of our ordinary shares may be subject to fluctuation and you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to considerable fluctuation since our IPO in August 2014, with the closing price per share having varied from a low of $7.01 to a high of $11.84. The stock market in general has been, and the market price of our ordinary shares in particular will likely continue to be, subject to fluctuation, whether due to, or irrespective of, our operating results and financial condition. The market price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations and financial condition; • market acceptance of our products; • the mix of products that we sell; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our ordinary shares are covered by analysts; • development of technological innovations or new competitive products by others; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us; • publication of the results of clinical trials for CureXcell or other products; • failure by us to achieve a publicly announced milestone; • delays between our expenditures to develop and market products and the generation of sales from those products; 26 • developments concerning intellectual property rights, including our involvement in litigation; • regulatory developments and the decisions of regulatory authorities as to the approval or rejection of new or modified products; • changes in the amounts that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • our sale or proposed sale, or the sale by our significant shareholders, of our ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • changes in key personnel; • success or failure of our research and development projects or those of our competitors; • the trading volume of our ordinary shares; and • general economic and market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses being incurred by our investors. In the past, following periods of market volatility, public company shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could impose a substantial cost upon us and divert the resources and attention of our management from our business. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have control over these analysts and we do not have commitments from them to continue to write research reports about us. The price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrades our ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. If our existing shareholders, particularly our directors, their affiliates, or our executive officers, sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our shareholders might sell our ordinary shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to obtain capital, especially through an offering of equity securities. The 180 day restriction on resale of ordinary shares by our pre-IPO shareholders pursuant to our IPO has lapsed, and these shareholders now have the ability to sell our ordinary shares into the market. We have furthermore filed a registration statement on Form S-8 with the SEC covering all of the ordinary shares issuable under our stock option and share incentive plans, and such shares are available for resale currently. In addition, our sale of additional ordinary shares or similar securities in order to raise capital might have a similar negative impact on the share price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our ordinary shares. 27 Certain of our pre-IPO shareholders, including some of our directors, continue to own a majority of our ordinary shares and, as a result, are able to exercise significant control over us, and your interests may conflict with their interests, and your ability to influence corporate matters may be limited. As of the start of February 2015, following the expiration of the 180 day lock-up period after our IPO, our most significant shareholders, who have held our ordinary shares since prior to our IPO (which include certain of our executive officers and directors, and/or their affiliates) continued to own nearly 70% of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, if they vote the shares that they own together, they may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. These individuals’ interests may not be consistent with those of our other shareholders. In addition, these parties’ significant interest in us may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us, which may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have broad discretion as to the use of the net proceeds from our IPO and may not use them effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our IPO. Our shareholders may not agree with the manner in which our management chooses to allocate the net proceeds from our IPO. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from our IPO in a manner that produces insignificant or no income. We have been incurring, and will continue to incur, increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has been, and will continue to be, required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company whose ordinary shares are listed in the United States, we incur accounting, legal, regulatory and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. We also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, introduced new costs such as investor relations and stock exchange listing fees, and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to the implementation of these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs that we may incur or the timing of such costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies will likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with such requirements. 28 We have never paid cash dividends on our share capital, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our share capital, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends on our share capital in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our ordinary shares will be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. In addition, Israeli law limits our ability to declare and pay dividends, and may subject our dividends to Israeli withholding taxes. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the NASDAQ Stock Market rules for domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we follow home country practice in Israel with regard to the (i) quorum requirement for shareholder meetings, (ii) the required composition of, and authorities delegated to, the compensation committee of our board of directors and (iii) independent director oversight of director nominations requirement. See “Item 6.C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices.” We may in the future elect to follow home country practices in Israel (and consequently avoid the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market) with regard to other matters, as well, such as separate executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain share-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the NASDAQ Stock Market rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, including the requirement for an emerging growth company to disclose the compensation of the chief executive officer and other two highest compensated executive officers on an individual, rather than aggregate, basis. A recent amendment to regulations under the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law, requires us to disclose the annual compensation of our five most highly compensated officers on an individual, rather than aggregate, basis. However, this disclosure is not as extensive as that required of a U.S. domestic issuer. Besides our executive compensation disclosure leniencies, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, and we are generally be exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. These exemptions and leniencies reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you may otherwise have been eligible in relation to a U.S. domestic issuer. We will lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our directors or executive officers are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. Although we have elected to comply with certain U.S. regulatory provisions, our loss of foreign private issuer status would make such provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with accepted governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. 29 We are an “emerging growth company” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” Most of such requirements relate to disclosures that we would only be required to make if we cease to be a foreign private issuer in the future. Nevertheless, as a foreign private issuer that is an emerging growth company, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of our IPO. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO occurs; (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. When we are no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company, we will not be entitled to the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act. Some investors may find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act, which may cause there to be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and a more volatile price for our shares. We have not yet determined whether our existing internal control over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules adopted by the SEC, starting with the annual report that we file with the SEC covering the 2015 fiscal year, our management will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, once we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act and lose the ability to rely on the exemptions applicable to emerging growth companies discussed above, our independent registered public accounting firm will also need to attest to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 if we are an “accelerated filer” or “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. We have not yet determined whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 and whether there are any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our existing internal controls. This determination will require the investment of substantial time and resources, including by our chief financial officer and other members of our senior management. As a result, the process related to this determination may divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of this determination and whether we will need to implement remedial actions in order to implement effective controls over financial reporting. The determination and any remedial actions required could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate, including the hiring of outside consultants. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently or are required to do so earlier than anticipated, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. 30 Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a PFIC may also depend on how quickly we use the cash proceeds from our IPO in our business. Based on estimates of our gross income and gross assets (including tangible assets and intangible assets based on the anticipated market value of our ordinary shares), our use of proceeds of our IPO, and the nature of our business, we do not believe that we were classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2014. There can be no assurance, however, regarding our PFIC status for 2014, 2015 or any other taxable year. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10.E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences” of this annual report), and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. Certain elections exist that may alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and would result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment) of our ordinary shares; however, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. Holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. Risks Primarily Related to Our Operations in Israel Part of our research and development facilities and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Part of our research and development facilities is located in Petach Tikva, Israel. In addition, certain of our key employees and officers, as well as the majority of our directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. In recent years, these have included hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza strip, both of which resulted in rockets being fired into Israel causing casualties and disruption of economic activities. Most recently, in July 2014, an armed conflict took place between Israel and Hamas. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, Iran. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government is currently committed to covering the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained, or if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflict involving Israel could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. 31 Further, our operations could be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2014, we had 19 employees based in Israel, certain of whom may be called upon to perform up to 54 days in each three year period (and in the case of non-officer commanders or officers, up to 70 or 84 days, respectively, in each three year period) of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (and in some cases, depending on their specific military profession up to 45 or even 49 years of age) and, in certain emergency circumstances, may be called to immediate and unlimited active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of employees related to military service, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies whether as a result of hostilities in the region or otherwise. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products. We received an Israeli government grant for certain research and development activities. The terms of the grant require us to satisfy specified conditions and to pay penalties in addition to repayment of the grant upon certain events. Our research and development efforts were financed in part through a grant from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS. The total gross amount of the grant actually received by us from the OCS, including accrued LIBOR interest as of December 31, 2014, totaled approximately $0.8 million. As of December 31, 2014, we had not paid any royalties to the OCS. Even following full repayment of any OCS grants, we must nevertheless continue to comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 5744-1984, and related regulations, or collectively, the R&D Law. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using OCS grants, the terms of these grants and the R&D Law restrict the transfer outside of Israel of such know-how, and the manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how, without the prior approval of the OCS. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies. We may not receive those approvals. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel. The transfer of OCS-supported technology or know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to aspects of such technologies outside of Israel may involve the payment of significant penalties and other amounts, depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of OCS support, the time of completion of the OCS-supported research project and other factors. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. 32 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us or our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Some of our executive officers and almost all of our directors reside outside of the United States, and most of our assets and most of the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our amended articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S.-based companies. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of the shareholders or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company with regard to such vote or appointment. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. companies. 33 