ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. In that event, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See also “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page (iii). Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We currently rely, and in the future will rely, on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance. We currently rely, and in the future will rely, on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue. We have sold only a limited number of ReWalk systems, and market acceptance and adoption depend on educating people with limited upright mobility and health care providers as to the distinct features, ease-of-use, positive lifestyle impact and other benefits of ReWalk compared to alternative technologies and treatments. ReWalk may not be perceived to have sufficient potential benefits compared with these alternatives. Users may also choose other therapies due to disadvantages of ReWalk, including the time it takes for a user to put on ReWalk, the slower pace of ReWalk compared to a wheelchair, the weight of ReWalk when carried, which makes it more burdensome for a companion to transport than a wheelchair, and the requirement that users be accompanied by a trained companion. Also, we believe that healthcare providers tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third-party reimbursement. Accordingly, healthcare providers may not recommend ReWalk until there is sufficient evidence to convince them to alter the treatment methods they typically recommend, such as prominent healthcare providers or other key opinion leaders in the spinal cord injury community recommending ReWalk as effective in providing identifiable immediate and long-term health benefits. In addition, health insurance companies and other third-party payors may not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products, and the VA may cancel or materially curtail its current policy of providing coverage in the United States for qualifying individuals who have suffered spinal cord injury. We may be unable to sell ReWalk systems on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage, limit reimbursement or reduce their levels of payment, or if our costs of production increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels. In addition, we may not obtain coverage and reimbursement approvals in a timely manner. Our failure to receive such approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of ReWalk. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance of ReWalk could be negatively impacted by many other factors, including, but not limited to: 14•lack of sufficient evidence supporting the benefits of ReWalk over competitive products or other available treatment, or lifestyle management, methodologies; •results of clinical studies relating to ReWalk or similar products; •claims that ReWalk, or any component thereof, infringes on patent or other intellectual property rights of third-parties; •perceived risks associated with the use of ReWalk or similar products or technologies; •the introduction of new competitive products or greater acceptance of competitive products; •adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to ReWalk or similar products or technologies; and •problems arising from the outsourcing of our manufacturing capabilities, or our existing manufacturing and supply relationships. Any factors that negatively impact sales of ReWalk would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The market for medical exoskeletons is new and unproven, and important assumptions about the potential market for our products may be inaccurate. The market for medical exoskeletons is new and unproven. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the future size and rate of growth of the market. We cannot be certain whether the market will continue to develop or if medical exoskeletons will achieve and sustain a level of market acceptance and demand sufficient for us to continue to generate revenue and achieve profitability. Limited sources exist to obtain reliable market data with respect to the number of mobility impaired individuals and the incurrence of spinal cord injuries in our target markets. In addition, there are no third-party reports or studies regarding what percentage of those with limited mobility or spinal cord injuries would be able to use exoskeletons in general, or our current or planned future products in particular. In order to use our current products marketed to those with paraplegia, users must have healthy hands and shoulders, weigh less than 220 pounds/100 kilograms and be between 5 ft. 3 inches and 6 ft. 2 inches/1.60 meters and 1.88 meters. Users must also not have balance, brain or vestibular disorders that would affect their balance. Future products for those with paraplegia, quadriplegia or other mobility impairments or spinal cord injuries may have the same or other restrictions. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our estimates of the number of mobility impaired individuals and the incurrence of spinal cord injuries in our target markets and the percentage of those groups that would be able to use our current and future products. Our assumptions may be inaccurate and may change. If the medical exoskeleton market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, or if we have relied on sources or made assumptions that are not accurate, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because we operate in a new market, the actions of our competitors could adversely affect our business. Adverse events such as product defects or legal claims with respect to competing or similar products could cause reputational harm to the exoskeleton market on the whole. Further, adverse regulatory findings or reimbursement-related decisions with respect to other exoskeleton products could negatively impact the entire market and, accordingly, our business. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business plan and prospects. Although we were incorporated in 2001, we did not begin selling ReWalk Rehabilitation until 2011, and we did not begin selling ReWalk Personal in Europe until 2012. We began selling ReWalk Personal in the United States in the third quarter of 2014, as we received FDA clearance to do so in June 2014. Therefore, we have limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business plan and prospects. Our business plan and prospects must be considered in the light of the potential problems, delays, uncertainties and complications encountered in connection with a newly established business. The risks include, but are not limited to, that: •a market will not develop for our products; •we will not be able to develop scalable products and services, or that, although scalable, our products and services will not be economical to market; •we will not be able to establish brand recognition and competitive advantages for our products; •we will not receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our products; and •our competitors market an equivalent or superior product or hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our products. There are no assurances that we can successfully address these challenges. If we are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 15If we are unable to leverage and expand our sales, marketing and training infrastructure, we may fail to increase our sales. A key element of our long-term business strategy is the continued expansion of our sales and marketing infrastructure, through the hiring, training, retaining and motivating of skilled sales and marketing representatives with industry experience and knowledge. In order to continue growing our business efficiently, we must coordinate the expansion of this infrastructure with the timing of regulatory approvals, decisions regarding reimbursements, and other factors in various geographies. Managing and maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure is expensive and time consuming and an inability to leverage such an organization effectively, or in coordination with regulatory or other developments, could inhibit potential sales and the penetration and adoption of ReWalk into both existing and new markets. We expect to face significant challenges as we manage and continue to grow our sales and marketing infrastructure and work to retain the individuals who make up those networks. Recently hired sales representatives require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we fail to train recent hires adequately, or if we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as may be necessary to maintain or increase our sales. In addition, if we are not able to retain and continue to recruit our network of internal trainers, we may not be able to successfully train customers on the use of ReWalk, which could inhibit new sales and harm our reputation. If we are unable to expand our sales, marketing and training capabilities, we may not be able to effectively commercialize ReWalk, or enhance the strength of our brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The health benefits of ReWalk have not been substantiated by long-term clinical data, which could limit sales. Although our interim analysis of an ongoing study demonstrates improvements in secondary physical conditions such as reduction in pain and spasticity and improving bowel and urinary tract function, decreasing pain, emotional and psychosocial benefits, the health benefits of our current ReWalk products have not been substantiated by long-term clinical data. As a result, potential customers and healthcare providers may be slower to adopt or recommend ReWalk and third-party payors may not be willing to provide coverage or reimbursement for our products. In addition, future studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our current or future ReWalk products is not superior to treatment with alternative products or therapies. Such results could slow the adoption of our products and significantly reduce our sales. We may fail to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for ReWalk by third-party payors. We expect that in the future a significant source of payment for ReWalk systems will be private insurance plans and managed care programs, government programs such as the VA, Medicare and Medicaid, worker’s compensation and other third-party payors. In December 2015, the VA issued a national reimbursement policy for the ReWalk system; however, no other uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for electronic exoskeleton medical technology exists among third-party payors in the United States or elsewhere, although reimbursement may be achieved on a case-by-case basis. To date, payments for our products have been made primarily by self-payors and through case-by-case determinations by third-party payors, and, to a lesser extent, through the use of funds from insurance and/or accident settlements. There is limited clinical data related to ReWalk, and third-party payors may consider use of ReWalk to be experimental and therefore refuse to cover it. For example, Aetna has determined that certain lower-limb prostheses, including ReWalk, are experimental and investigational because there is inadequate evidence of their effectiveness. Generally, private insurance companies do not cover or provide reimbursement for any medical exoskeleton products for personal use, including ReWalk, and may ultimately provide no coverage at all.Many private third-party payors use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by the CMS, which administers the Medicare program, as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. In the future, we will pursue economic benefit clinical studies for CMS, which we expect to demonstrate the secondary medical benefits and long-term cost savings potential of ReWalk. While we believe that a positive response from CMS in respect of such studies will broaden coverage by private insurers, we expect that it could take three to five years to receive a decision from CMS. Even with a positive decision from CMS regarding ReWalk Personal, future action by CMS or other government agencies may diminish possible payments to physicians, outpatient centers and/or hospitals that purchase ReWalk Rehabilitation, and possible payments to individuals who purchase ReWalk Personal. Additionally, a decision by CMS to provide reimbursement could influence other payors, including private insurers. If CMS declines to provide for reimbursements of ReWalk or if its reimbursement price is lower than that of other payors, ReWalk may not be reimbursed at a cost-effective level or at all. Those private third-party payors that do not follow the Medicare guidelines may adopt different coverage and reimbursement policies for purchase of ReWalk, or use of ReWalk Rehabilitation at a hospital or rehabilitation center. In addition, we expect that the purchase of ReWalk Rehabilitation systems will require the approval of senior management at hospitals or rehabilitation facilities, inclusion in the hospitals’ or rehabilitation facilities’ budget process for capital expenditures, and in the case of ReWalk Personal, fundraising and financial planning or assistance. 16Third-party payors are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. These cost control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, benefit redesigns and an exploration of other cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These cost control methods potentially limit the amount that healthcare providers may be willing to pay for electronic exoskeleton medical technology, if they provide coverage at all. We may be unable to sell ReWalk systems on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or provide insufficient levels of reimbursement. We depend on a single third party to manufacture ReWalk and a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain components of ReWalk. We have contracted with Sanmina Corporation, a well-established contract manufacturer with expertise in the medical device industry, for the manufacture of all of our products and the sourcing of all of our components and raw materials. Pursuant to this contract, Sanmina manufactures ReWalk, pursuant to our specifications, at its facility in Ma’alot, Israel. We may terminate our relationship with Sanmina at any time upon written notice. In addition, either we or Sanmina may terminate the relationship in the event of a material breach, subject to a 30-day cure period. For our business strategy to be successful, Sanmina must be able to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and quality control standards, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. Increases in our product sales, whether forecasted or unanticipated, could strain the ability of Sanmina to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our current or future products in a manner that meets these various requirements. In addition, although we are not restricted from engaging an alternative manufacturer, and have the capabilities to manufacture ReWalk in-house, the process of moving our manufacturing activities would be time consuming and costly, and may limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also rely on third-party suppliers, which contract directly with Sanmina, to supply certain components of ReWalk. Sanmina does not have long-term supply agreements with most of its suppliers and, in many cases, makes purchases on a purchase order basis. Sanmina’s ability to secure adequate quantities of such products may be limited. Suppliers may encounter problems that limit their ability to manufacture components for our products, including financial difficulties or damage to their manufacturing equipment or facilities. If Sanmina fails to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet demand on a timely basis, we could lose customer orders, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer. Sanmina generally uses a small number of suppliers for ReWalk. Depending on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. If any one or more of our suppliers ceases to provide sufficient quantities of components in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, Sanmina would have to seek alternative sources of supply. It may be difficult to engage additional or replacement suppliers in a timely manner. Failure of these suppliers to deliver products at the level our business requires would limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sanmina also may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and the failure of Sanmina’s suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. It could also require Sanmina to cease using the components, seek alternative components or technologies and we could be forced to modify our products to incorporate alternative components or technologies, which could result in a requirement to seek additional regulatory approvals. Any disruption of this nature or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our operating results. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers for the batteries used by ReWalk and do not maintain any long-term supply agreement with respect to batteries. If we or our third-party distributors fail to obtain sufficient quantities of batteries in a timely manner, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer. Our future growth and operating results will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize new products and penetrate new markets. We are currently engaged in research and development efforts to adapt ReWalk to address the mobility needs of patients with mobility impairments besides paraplegia, such as multiple sclerosis patients, and, in the future, we plan to address these needs in stroke, cerebral palsy and quadriplegia patients. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will be derived, in the next few years, from ReWalk products that we adapt for use by individuals with multiple sclerosis, and, in later years, from products that we create to address other medical indications affecting the ability to walk, including quadriplegia, strokes and cerebral palsy. As such, our future results will depend on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize such products. We cannot ensure you that we will be able to introduce new products, products currently under development and products contemplated for future development for additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we may not be able to clinically demonstrate the medical benefits of our products for new indications, and we do not yet have any clinical data demonstrating the benefits of our products for indications other than paraplegia. We may also be unable to gain necessary regulatory approvals to enable us to market ReWalk for additional indications or the regulatory process may be more costly and time consuming than expected.Even if we are successful in the design and development of new products, our growth and results of operations will depend on our ability to penetrate new markets and gain acceptance by non-spinal cord injury markets such as the multiple sclerosis 17community, and, in the longer term, stroke and cerebral palsy patients or individuals with quadriplegia. We may not be able to gain such market acceptance in these communities in a timely manner, or at all. While they will utilize the same core technology platform, our new products and products currently under development will have design features and components that differ from our current products. Accordingly, these products will also be subject to the risks described above under “—We currently rely, and in the future will rely, on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance.” To the extent we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize products to address indications other than paraplegia, we will not meet our projected results of operations and future growth. We operate in a competitive industry that is subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase. There are several other companies developing technology and devices that compete with ReWalk. Our principal competitors in the medical exoskeleton market consist of Ekso Bionics, Rex Bionics, Cyberdyne, and Parker Hannifin. These companies have products currently available for institutional use and Parker Hannifin has filed with the FDA for clearance to commercialize its Indego device for personal use. We expect some of such products to become available for personal use in the next few years. In addition, we compete with alternative devices and alternative therapies, including treadmill-based gait therapies, such as those offered by Hocoma, AlterG, Aretech and Reha Technology. These or other medical device or robotics companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new technologies or therapies that provide a superior walking experience, are more effective in treating the secondary medical conditions that we target or are less expensive than ReWalk or future products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. We may also compete with other treatments and technologies that address the secondary medical conditions that ReWalk seeks to mitigate. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, potential customers, such as hospitals and rehabilitation centers, could have long-standing or contractual relationships with competitors or other medical device companies. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt ReWalk, particularly if it competes with or has the potential to compete with or diminish the need/utilization of products or treatments supported through these existing relationships. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will be negatively impacted. We have incurred net losses since our inception. We have experienced operating losses since our inception in 2001. We expect that we will continue to incur losses for at least the next two years as we continue to commercialize our ReWalk systems, expand our sales and marketing capabilities, continue our ongoing research and development and continue to develop the corporate infrastructure necessary to market and sell our products. Additionally, as we became subject to the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime following the loss of our foreign private issuer status as of January 1, 2016, due to the increased reporting requirements applicable to domestic issuers we may face significantly higher regulatory, compliance and financial costs than those we incurred as a foreign private issuer, and our general and administrative expenses could increase. Our ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow is subject to the risks described in this section. If we are unable to become profitable with positive cash flow, the value of your investment may be adversely affected. We may not have sufficient funds to meet our future capital requirements. We believe we have sufficient cash resources to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if we require additional funds during that period or in later periods, we may need to seek additional sources of funds, including potentially by borrowing, selling or licensing our assets or selling additional equity securities. However, we may be unable to obtain additional funds on reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we may be required to reduce the scope of, or delay or eliminate, some or all of our current and planned commercialization and research and development activities. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer service or other resources devoted to our business. Any of these actions could materially harm our business and results of operations. Any sale of additional equity may result in dilution to our shareholders and agreements governing any borrowing arrangement may contain covenants that could restrict our operations.In the event that we default under our loan agreement with Kreos, Kreos could exercise its lien and take possession over all of our assets.As described below under Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources," on December 30, 2015, we entered into a loan agreement, or the Loan Agreement, with Kreos Capital V (Expert Fund) Limited, or Kreos, pursuant to which Kreos extended a line of credit to us in the amount of $20.0 million. On January 4, 2016, we drew down $12.0 million and, in the event that prior to December 31, 2016 we raise $10.0 million or more in connection with the issuance of shares of our capital stock (including debt convertible into shares of our capital stock), we will be able to draw down up to an additional $8.0 million in separate tranches until December 31, 2016, with a minimum 18required drawdown of $2.0 million each. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, we granted Kreos a first priority security interest over all of our assets, including intellectual property and equity interests in our subsidiaries, subject to certain permitted security interests. In the event that we are unable to make the interest payments when due under the Loan Agreement or to pay the outstanding principal amount following the termination of the Loan Agreement, Kreos could take actions under the Loan Agreement and seek to take possession of or sell our assets to satisfy our obligations thereunder. Any of these actions would have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We utilize independent distributors who are free to market products that compete with ReWalk. While we expect that the percentage of our sales generated from independent distributors will decrease over time as we continue to increase our direct sales efforts in the United States in response to the receipt of FDA clearance for ReWalk Personal, we believe that a meaningful percentage of our sales will continue to be generated by independent distributors in the future. None of our independent distributors has been required to sell our products exclusively. Our distributor agreements generally have one year initial terms and automatic renewals for an additional year. If any of our key independent distributors were to cease to distribute our products, our sales could be adversely affected. In such a situation, we may need to seek alternative independent distributors or increase our reliance on our other independent distributors or our direct sales representatives, which may not prevent our sales from being adversely affected. Additionally, to the extent that we enter into additional arrangements with independent distributors to perform sales, marketing, or distribution services, the terms of the arrangements could cause our product margins to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. We are dependent on a single facility for the manufacturing and assembly of our products. All manufacturing and assembly of our products is conducted at a single facility of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, located in Ma’alot, Israel. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of this facility. If operations at this facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, earthquakes and other natural disasters, fires, accidents, work stoppages, power outages, acts of war or terrorism or other reasons, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, this facility is located in the north of Israel within range of rockets that have from time to time been fired into the country during armed conflicts with Hezbollah in Lebanon. Although our manufacturing and assembly operations could be transferred elsewhere, either in-house or to an alternative Sanmina facility, the process of relocating these operations would cause delays in production. Lost sales or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption, or a forced relocation, of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and operations could be materially negatively impacted. We may receive a significant number of warranty claims or our ReWalk system may require significant amounts of service after sale. Sales of ReWalk generally include a two-year warranty for parts and services, other than for normal wear and tear. We also provide customers with the option to purchase an extended warranty for up to an additional three years. If product returns or warranty claims are significant or exceed our expectations, we could incur unanticipated expenditures for parts and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Defects in our products or the software that drives them could adversely affect the results of our operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of ReWalk involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of ReWalk, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of ReWalk can lead to injury or other adverse events. In addition, because the manufacturing of our products is outsourced to Sanmina, our original equipment manufacturer, we may not be aware of manufacturing defects that could occur. Such adverse events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to ReWalk (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of ReWalk from the market. A recall could result in significant costs. To the extent any manufacturing defect occurs, our agreement with Sanmina contains a limitation on Sanmina’s liability, and therefore we could be required to incur the majority of related costs. Product defects or recalls could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation or, in some circumstances, delays in new product approvals. When a human exoskeleton is used by a paralyzed individual to walk, the individual relies completely on the exoskeleton to hold him or her upright. In addition, ReWalk incorporates sophisticated computer software. Complex software frequently contains errors, especially when first introduced. Our software may experience errors or performance problems in the future. If any part of ReWalk’s hardware or software were to fail, the user could experience death or serious injury. Additionally, users may not use ReWalk in accordance with safety protocols and training, which could enhance the risk of death or injury. Any such occurrence could cause delay in market acceptance of ReWalk, damage to our reputation, additional regulatory filings, product recalls, increased service and warranty costs, product liability claims and loss of revenue relating to such hardware or software defects. 19The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. We have been, and anticipate that as part of our ordinary course of business we may be, subject to product liability claims alleging defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs and high punitive damage payments. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. We may not be able to enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts. In order to increase our sales and our market share in the exoskeleton market, we must enhance and broaden our research and development efforts and product offerings in response to the evolving demands of people with paraplegia or paralysis and healthcare providers, as well as competitive technologies. We may not be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or marketing our proposed products. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our future products may not be accepted by consumers, their caregivers, healthcare providers or third-party payors who reimburse consumers for our products. The success of any proposed product offerings will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to: •identify the product features that people with paraplegia or paralysis, their caregivers and healthcare providers are seeking in a medical device that restores upright mobility and successfully incorporate those features into our products; •develop and introduce proposed products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner; •adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties; •demonstrate the safety, efficacy and health benefits of proposed products; and •obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for proposed products. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features desired by consumers, their caregivers or healthcare providers, or if we do not obtain regulatory clearance or approval for proposed products in time to meet market demand, we may fail to generate sales sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced, and we may in the future experience, delays in various phases of product development, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Such delays could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, or to purchase our competitors’ products. Even if we are able to successfully develop proposed products when anticipated, these products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. There is no long-term clinical data with respect to the effects of ReWalk, and our products could cause unforeseen negative effects. While short-term clinical studies have established the safety of ReWalk, there is no long-term clinical data with respect to the safety or physical effects of ReWalk. Future results and experience could indicate that our products are not safe for long-term use or cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects. Because ReWalk users generally do not have feeling in their lower body, users may not immediately notice damaging effects, which could exacerbate their impact. If in the future ReWalk is shown to be unsafe or cause such unforeseen effects, we could be subject to mandatory product recalls, suspension or withdrawal of FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval, significant legal liability or harm to our business reputation. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships with third-parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, in the future we may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to develop ReWalk and to pursue new markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenues and could be terminated prior to developing any products. For example, we have entered into arrangements with Yaskawa for the distribution of our products in certain Asian markets and with Making Strides for the distribution of our products in Australia. Additionally, on December 17, 2015, the VA issued a national policy, which is exclusive to ReWalk Robotics exoskeleton systems, for the evaluation, training and procurement of ReWalk Personal exoskeleton systems for all qualifying veterans suffering spinal cord injury across the United States. Our arrangement with Yaskawa and any arrangement we enter into with the VA pursuant to its policy may not be as productive or successful as we hope. 20If we pursue collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. It is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators. Our collaborators may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest, and they may breach their obligations to us. Any such disputes could result in litigation or arbitration which would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable agreements. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar, the Euro and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings. The U.S. dollar is our functional and reporting currency. In 2015, most of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remainder of our revenues was denominated in euros, and most of our expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remainder of our expenses was denominated in NIS and euros. In 2016, we expect that the denominations of our revenues and expenses will be consistent with what we experienced in 2015. Accordingly, any appreciation of the NIS or Euro relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our net loss or net income, if any. For example, we are exposed to the risks that the shekel may appreciate relative to the dollar, or, if the shekel instead devalues relative to the dollar, that the inflation rate in Israel may exceed such rate of devaluation of the shekel, or that the timing of such devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In any such event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation (if any) of the shekel against the dollar. For example, the rate of devaluation of the shekel against the dollar was approximately 0.3% in 2015, and approximately 12.0% in 2014, respectively. This had the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations in the future.We have in the past engaged in limited hedging activities, and any hedging strategies that we may implement in the future to mitigate currency risks, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures, may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. For further information, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk"We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other products or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. Potential acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •problems assimilating the acquired products or technologies; •issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; •unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions; •diversion of management’s attention from our existing business; •risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; and •increased legal and accounting costs relating to the acquisitions or compliance with regulatory matters. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired products or technologies. Our potential inability to integrate any acquired products or technologies effectively may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If there are significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage sales and marketing data, accounting and financial functions, inventory management, product development tasks, research and development data, customer service and technical support functions. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power losses, and computer system or data network failures. In addition, our data management application is hosted by a third-party service provider whose security and information technology systems are subject to similar risks, and ReWalk systems contain software which could be subject to computer virus or hacker attacks or other failures. 21The failure of our or our service providers’ information technology systems or ReWalk’s software to perform as we anticipate or our failure to effectively implement new information technology systems could disrupt our entire operation or adversely affect our software products and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, and product shortages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Our rapid growth has placed, and we expect that it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management team and on our financial resources. Failure to manage our growth effectively could cause us to misallocate management or financial resources, and result in losses or weaknesses in our infrastructure, which could materially adversely affect our business. Additionally, our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to manage our suppliers and monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. We depend on the knowledge and skills of our senior management. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management. For example, we depend on our Chief Executive Officer’s experience successfully scaling an early stage medical device company, as well as the experience of other members of management. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our personnel. Additionally, we do not carry key man insurance on any of our current executive officers. The loss of the services of certain members of our senior management could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our strategic objectives, or divert management’s attention to seeking qualified replacements. Risks Related to Government Regulation We are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, and a failure to comply with such regulations could lead to withdrawal or recall of our products from the market.Our medical products and manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by the FDA, the European Union, the Ministry of Health in Israel, the TGA in Australia, and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, installation, servicing, advertising, promoting, marketing, distribution, import, export and market surveillance of ReWalk.Our products are regulated as medical devices in the United States under the FFDCA as implemented and enforced by the FDA. Under the FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes-Class I, Class II or Class III-depending on the degree of risk associated with the medical device, what is known about the type of device, and the extent of control needed to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Classification of a device is important because the class to which a device is assigned determines, among other things, the necessity and type of FDA review required prior to marketing the device. See Item 1. “Business - Government Regulation.”In June 2014, the FDA granted our petition for “de novo” classification, which provides a route to market for medical devices that are low to moderate risk, but are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device, and classified ReWalk as Class II subject to certain special controls. The ReWalk is intended to enable individuals with spinal cord injuries to perform ambulatory functions under supervision of a specially trained companion, and inside rehabilitation institutions. The special controls established in the de novo order include compliance with medical device consensus standards; clinical study demonstrating testing to safe and effective use considering the level of supervision necessary and the use environment; non-clinical performance testing of the system’s function and durability; and performance to demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use; a training program; and labeling related to device use and user training. In order for us to market ReWalk, we must comply with both general controls, including controls related to quality, facility registration, reporting of adverse events and labeling, and the special controls established for the device. Failure to comply with the general and special controls could lead to removal of ReWalk from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.Following the introduction of a product, the governmental agencies will periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance, and we are under a continuing obligation to ensure that all applicable regulatory requirements continue to be met. The process of complying with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting and other requirements can be costly and time consuming, and could delay or prevent the production, manufacturing or sale of the ReWalk. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation. Recent changes in enforcement practice by the FDA, European Union and other agencies have resulted in increased enforcement activity, which increases the compliance risk that we and other companies in our industry are facing. 22In addition, governmental agencies may impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to modify or re-register ReWalk once it is already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market ReWalk in those countries. The process of complying with these governmental regulations can be costly and time consuming, and could delay or prevent the production, manufacturing or sale of ReWalk. For instance, the FDA may issue mandates, known as 522 orders, requiring us to conduct post-market studies of products for which the FDA has already granted us pre-market clearance. Failure to comply could result in enforcement of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act against us or our products. Additionally, the agency could request that we recall our ReWalk Personal 6.0 device. In February 2016, the FDA sent us a letter citing deficiencies in the protocol for the mandatory post-market study (conducted pursuant to a 522 order) on our ReWalk Personal 6.0 model and expressing the FDA’s belief that we should submit a second premarket notification for the device. We intend to meet and discuss the February 2016 letter with the FDA. We expect that we may continue to sell our ReWalk Personal 6.0 model notwithstanding the outcome because of our good faith belief that our past 510(k) clearance covers the ReWalk Personal 6.0 and the public health significance of the device. Further, we currently expect that we will be able to address any deficiencies in our post-market study protocol. However, if the FDA were to decide instead to seek enforcement against us, the ReWalk Personal 6.0 model or any other product due to failure to satisfy this or any other 522 order, we could be prevented from selling the product in the United States, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted. We, Sanmina and some of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and Sanmina and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we or our distributors market our products abroad. We continue to monitor our quality management in order to improve our overall level of compliance. Our facilities are subject to periodic and unannounced inspection by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies to audit compliance with the QSR and comparable foreign regulations. If our facilities or those of Sanmina or our suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or if we or Sanmina or our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection, the regulatory authority could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; •customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds; •detention or seizure of our products; •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) marketing clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; •withdrawing 510(k) marketing clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; •refusing to provide Certificates for Foreign Government; •refusing to grant export approval for our products; or •pursuing criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce ReWalk in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. We are subject to various laws and regulations, including “fraud and abuse” laws and anti-bribery laws, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Medical device companies such as ours have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to alleged violations of numerous statutes and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. See Item 1. “Business—Government Regulation.” U.S. federal and state laws, including the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act, and the implementation of Open Payments regulations under the Sunshine Act, require medical device companies to disclose certain payments or other transfers of value made to healthcare providers and teaching hospitals or funds spent on marketing and promotion of medical device products. It is widely believed that public reporting under the Sunshine Act and implementing Open 23Payments regulations results in increased scrutiny of the financial relationships between industry, physicians and teaching hospitals. These anti-kickback, anti-bribery, public reporting and aggregate spending laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, rehabilitation centers, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of ReWalk. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions. The FCPA applies to companies, including ours, with a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act. The FCPA and other anti-bribery laws to which various aspects of our operations may be subject generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In various jurisdictions, our operations require that we and third parties acting on our behalf routinely interact with government officials, including medical personnel who may be considered government officials for purposes of these laws because they are employees of state-owned or controlled facilities. Other anti-bribery laws to which various aspects of our operations may be subject, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act, also prohibit improper payments to private parties and prohibit receipt of improper payments. Our policies prohibit our employees from making or receiving corrupt payments, including, among other things, to require compliance by third parties engaged to act on our behalf. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and/or private corruption to some degree. As a result, the existence and implementation of a robust anti-corruption program cannot eliminate all risk that unauthorized reckless or criminal acts have been or will be committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal, state and foreign laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we or any of our service providers are found to be in violation of the promulgated patient privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Compliance with various regulations, including those related to our status as a U.S. public company and the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, may result in heightened general and administrative expenses and costs, divert management’s attention from revenue-generating activities and pose challenges for our management team, which has limited time, personnel and finances to devote to regulatory compliance. As a U.S. public company, we are subject to various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Additionally, our medical products and manufacturing operations are regulated by the FDA, the European Union, the Ministry of Health in Israel, the TGA in Australia and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. Compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to us as a publicly traded company in the United States and medical device manufacturer has greatly increased, and may continue to increase, our legal, general and administrative and financial compliance costs and has made, and may continue to make, some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly. Additionally, these regulatory requirements have diverted, and may continue to divert, management’s attention from revenue-generating activities and may increase demands on management’s already-limited resources. Our management team consists of few employees, as the majority of our employees are engaged in sales and marketing and research and development activities, and we do not employ in-house counsel. In light of such constraints on its time, personnel and finances, our management may not be able to implement programs and policies in an effective and timely manner to respond adequately to the heightened legal, regulatory and reporting requirements applicable to us. In the past, for example, we have not always been able to respond on a timely basis to requests from regulators, although we have not to date experienced any material adverse consequences as a result. Similar deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance with public company, medical device and other regulations could harm our reputation in the capital markets or for quality and safety, negatively affect our ability to maintain our public company status and to develop, commercialize or continue selling our products on a timely and effective basis, and cause us to incur sanctions, including fines, injunctions and penalties.24In addition, complying with public disclosure rules makes our business more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our products. We seek to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patents, trademarks, confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our contractors and confidentiality agreements with certain of our consultants, scientific advisors and other vendors and contractors. In addition, we rely on trade secrets law to protect our proprietary software and product candidates/products in development. The patent position of robotic and exoskeleton inventions can be highly uncertain and involves many new and evolving complex legal, factual and technical issues. Patent laws and interpretations of those laws are subject to change and any such changes may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of protection. In addition, we may fail to apply for or be unable to obtain patents necessary to protect our technology or products or enforce our patents due to lack of information about the exact use of technology or processes by third parties. Also, we cannot be sure that any patents will be granted in a timely manner or at all with respect to any of our patent pending applications or that any patents that are granted will be adequate to protect our intellectual property for any significant period of time or at all. Litigation to establish or challenge the validity of patents, or to defend against or assert against others infringement, unauthorized use, enforceability or invalidity claims, can be lengthy and expensive and may result in our patents being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our not being granted new patents related to our pending patent applications. Even if we prevail, litigation may be time consuming and force us to incur significant costs, and any damages or other remedies awarded to us may not be valuable and management’s attention could be diverted from managing our business. In addition, U.S. patents and patent applications may be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to re-examination and review proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may also be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices. Any of these proceedings may be expensive and could result in the loss of a patent or denial of a patent application, or the loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of a patent or patent application. In addition, we seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and confidential information that is not patentable by entering into confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our contractors and confidentiality agreements with certain of our consultants, scientific advisors and other vendors and contractors. However, we may fail to enter into the necessary agreements, and even if entered into, these agreements may be breached or otherwise fail to prevent disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary information, may be limited as to their term and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure or use of proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. We also have taken precautions to initiate reasonable safeguards to protect our information technology systems. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information, which could lead to the loss or impairment thereof or to expensive litigation to defend our rights against competitors who may be better funded and have superior resources. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary or our proprietary information may otherwise become known or may be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If other parties are able to use our proprietary technology or information, our ability to compete in the market could be harmed.Further, unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred, or may occur in the future, without our knowledge. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate protection for intellectual property, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, competitors may be able to use our technologies, resulting in harm to our competitive position. Our patents and proprietary technology and processes may not provide us with a competitive advantage. Robotics and exoskeleton technologies have been developing rapidly in recent years. We are aware of several other companies developing competing exoskeleton devices for individuals with limited mobility and we expect the level of competition and the pace of development in our industry to increase. See Item 1. “Business—Competition.” While we believe our tilt-sensor technology provides a more natural and superior method of exoskeleton activation, which creates a better user experience, a variety of other activation and control methods exist for exoskeletons, several of which are being developed by our competitors, or may 25be developed in the future. As a result, our patent portfolio and proprietary technology and processes may not provide us with a significant advantage over our competitors, and competitors may be able to design and sell alternative products that are equal to or superior to our products without infringing on our patents. In addition, upon the expiration of our current patents, we may be unable to adequately develop new technologies and obtain future patent protection to preserve our competitive advantage. If we are unable to maintain a competitive advantage, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Even in instances where others are found to infringe on our patents, many countries have laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses for the use of the patented technology to other parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against other parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, a patent owner may have limited remedies, which could diminish the value of a patent in those countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products, and effective enforcement in those countries may not be available. The ability of others to market comparable products could adversely affect our business. We are not able to protect our intellectual property rights in all countries. Filing, prosecuting, maintaining and defending patents on each of our products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and thus our intellectual property rights outside the United States are limited. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, especially developing countries, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Also, it may not be possible to effectively enforce intellectual property rights in some countries at all or to the same extent as in the United States and other countries. Consequently, we are unable to prevent third parties from using our inventions in all countries, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in the jurisdictions in which we do not have (or are unable to effectively enforce) patent protection. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop, market or otherwise commercialize their own products, and we may be unable to prevent those competitors from importing those infringing products into territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents and other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing in those jurisdictions. Moreover, competitors or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges against our intellectual property rights or may infringe upon our intellectual property rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert patent infringement or other claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license from third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our current and future products. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property and a substantial amount of litigation over patent rights. In particular, our competitors in both the United States and abroad, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have been issued patents and filed patent applications with respect to their products and processes and may apply for other patents in the future. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, and the complexities of the technology involved increase the risk of patent litigation. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues and the outcome of patent litigation is often uncertain. Even though we have conducted research of issued patents, no assurance can be given that patents containing claims covering our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. In addition, because patent applications can take years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and may result in issued patents which our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and parent grant, published applications may issue with claims that potentially cover our products, technology or methods. Infringement actions and other intellectual property claims brought against us, with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend against any allegations of infringement. If we are found to infringe another party’s patents, we could be required to pay damages. We could also be prevented from selling our products that infringe, unless we could obtain a license to use the technology covered by such patents or could redesign our products so that they do not infringe. A license may be available on commercially reasonable terms or none at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Further, any modification to our products could require us to conduct clinical trials 26and revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time consuming and expensive. In these circumstances, we may not be able to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, and our business and operating results could be harmed. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. We have registered the trademark “ReWalk” in Israel and are in the process of registering our trademark in the United States. In jurisdictions where we have not registered our trademark and are using it, and as permitted by applicable local law, we rely on common law trademark protection. Third-parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks, and may be able to use our trademarks in jurisdictions where they are not registered or otherwise protected by law. If our trademarks are successfully challenged or if a third party is using confusingly similar or identical trademarks in particular jurisdictions before we do, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote additional resources to marketing new brands. If others are able to use our trademarks, our ability to distinguish our products may be impaired, which could adversely affect our business. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, and we may hire employees in the future that are so employed. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. If any of these technologies or features that are important to our products, this could prevent us from selling those products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of management. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our ordinary shares were first publicly offered in our initial public offering in September 2014, at a price of $12.00 per share and our ordinary shares have subsequently traded as high as $43.71 per share and as low as $5.55 per share through February 22, 2016. The market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, including, but not limited to: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our growth rate or results of operations or those of our competitors; •customer acceptance of our products; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, commercial relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; •announcements by us or our competitors of other material developments; •our involvement in litigation; •changes in government regulation applicable to us and our products; •sales, or the anticipation of sales, of our ordinary shares, warrants and debt securities by us, or sales of our ordinary shares by our insiders or other shareholders, including upon expiration of contractual lock-up agreements; •developments with respect to intellectual property rights; •competition from existing or new technologies and products; •changes in key personnel; •the trading volume of our ordinary shares; •changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and •general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against 27that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. If we do not meet the expectations of equity research analysts, if they do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline.The trading market for our ordinary shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The analysts’ estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our results of operations are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our share price could decline. Moreover, the price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or do not publish research or reports about us or our business.A small number of our shareholders have a significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, entities affiliated with SCP Vitalife Partners and Yaskawa Electric Corporation, beneficially own in the aggregate 27.0% of our ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders, should they choose to act together or and even if they act individually, will exert significant influence over our operations and business strategy and would together have sufficient voting power to influence significantly the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: •the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; •approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; •raising future capital; and •amending our articles of association, which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. As of January 1, 2016, we are required to comply with the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime, which may cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses and resources. Prior to January 1, 2016, we were a foreign private issuer and therefore were not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As we are no longer a foreign private issuer as of January 1, 2016, we are required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are no longer exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act and are no longer exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD. We are also no longer permitted to follow our home country rules in lieu of the corporate governance obligations imposed by the NASDAQ, and may be required to comply with the governance practices required of U.S. domestic issuers. The regulatory and compliance costs associated with the reporting and governance requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers may be significantly higher than the costs we previously incurred as a foreign private issuer. As a result, we expect that the loss of foreign private issuer status will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities highly time consuming and costly. In addition, we need to develop our reporting and compliance infrastructure and may face challenges in complying with the new requirements applicable to us. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain whether the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. As a result, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” For instance, we are subject to reduced compensation disclosure obligations under the JOBS Act, and we are not required to conduct votes seeking shareholder approval on an advisory basis of (i) the compensation of our named executive officers or the frequency with which such votes must be conducted or (ii) compensation arrangements and understandings in connection with merger transactions, known as “golden parachute” arrangements. Additionally, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering. We will remain an emerging growth company 28until the earliest of: (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion; (b) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. When we are no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company, we will not be entitled to the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act discussed above. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. If we or our existing shareholders, particularly our largest shareholders, our directors, their affiliates, or our executive officers, sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that we or these shareholders might sell our ordinary shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our future ability to obtain capital, especially through an offering of equity securities. We are party to an Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Rights Agreement with certain of our shareholders. Pursuant to that agreement, as of February 1, 2016, the beneficial owners of 4,317,883 of our ordinary shares are entitled to require that we register their shares under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets. All shares sold pursuant to an offering covered by such registration statement will be freely transferable. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” In addition, as of February 1, 2016, 1,846,334 ordinary shares were subject to outstanding option awards granted to employees under our equity incentive plans, including 680,020 ordinary shares issuable under currently exercisable share options. As of February 1, 2016, 2,743,892 shares remained available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, which amount includes 1,846,334 ordinary shares subject to outstanding awards. Shares issued pursuant to our share incentive plans may be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting provisions, except for shares held by affiliates who have certain restrictions on their ability to sell.Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Passive income for this purpose generally includes, among other things, certain dividends, interest, royalties, rents and gains from commodities and securities transactions and from the sale or exchange of property that gives rise to passive income. Passive income also includes amounts derived by reason of the temporary investment of funds, including those raised in a public offering. In determining whether a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC, a proportionate share of the income and assets of each corporation in which it owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 25% interest (by value) is taken into account. Based on our gross income and assets and the nature of our business, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015. There can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for 2016 or any taxable year. PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Further, because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization (assuming we are treated as publicly traded for purposes of PFIC rules), a decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than a capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. Holders (as defined below), and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. Certain elections exist that may alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and would result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment) of our ordinary shares; however, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. For purposes of the above discussion, a “U.S. Holder” is a citizen or resident of the United States; a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, including the District of Columbia; an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or a trust if such trust has validly elected to be treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if (1) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and (2) one or more United States persons have the authority to control all of the substantial decisions of such trust.29We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls it could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation.Starting in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, we are required to comply with the internal control, evaluation, and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Unless we lose our status as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of our IPO occurred, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the year ended December 31, 2019. However once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act our independent registered public accounting firm will need to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404.The process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 and whether there are any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our existing internal controls requires the investment of substantial time and resources, including by our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management. This determination and any remedial actions required could divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete and could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate, including the hiring of outside consultants. We could experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently or are required to do so earlier than anticipated, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our management and, once we lose our emerging growth company status, our independent auditors. Further, if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. Risks Relating to Our Incorporation and Location in Israel Our technology development and quality headquarters and the manufacturing facility for our products are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by economic restrictions imposed on, and political and military instability in, Israel. Our technology development and quality headquarters, which houses substantially all of our research and development and our core research and development team, including engineers, machinists, researchers, and clinical and regulatory personnel, as well as the facility of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, are located in Israel. Many of our employees, directors and officers are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, Hamas (an Islamist militia and political group in the Gaza Strip) and Hezbollah (an Islamist militia and political group in Lebanon). Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. In particular, an interruption of operations at the Tel Aviv airport related to the conflict in the Gaza Strip or otherwise could prevent or delay shipments of our components or products. Although we maintain inventory in the United States and Germany, an extended interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent political uprisings, social unrest and violence in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa, including Israel’s neighbors Egypt and Syria, are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political relationships that exist between Israel and these countries and has raised concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among parties hostile to Israel in areas that neighbor Israel, such as the Syrian government, Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and the operations of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of Israeli citizens to perform military service. Many Israeli citizens are obligated to perform one month, and in some cases more, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 45 (or older, for reservists with certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. For example, the Israeli armed forces called up a significant number of reservists to active duty in connection with the recent conflict in the 30Gaza Strip. It is possible that there will be additional military reserve duty call-ups in the future in connection with this conflict or otherwise. Some of our executive officers and employees, as well as those of Sanmina, the manufacturer of all of our products, are required to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Although these call-ups have not had a material impact on our operations or on Sanmina’s ability to manufacture our products, our operations and the operations of Sanmina could be disrupted by such call-ups. Our sales may be adversely affected by boycotts of Israel. Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies whether as a result of hostilities in the region or otherwise. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes. Some of our operations in Israel, referred to as “Beneficiary Enterprises,” carry certain tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, or the Investment Law. Substantially all of our future income before taxes can be attributed to these programs. If we do not meet the requirements for maintaining these benefits or if our assumptions regarding the key elements affecting our tax rates are rejected by the tax authorities, they may be reduced or cancelled and the relevant operations would be subject to Israeli corporate tax at the standard rate, which is currently set at 25.0% for 2016 and thereafter. In addition to being subject to the standard corporate tax rate, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we may receive in the future, plus interest and penalties thereon. Even if we continue to meet the relevant requirements, the tax benefits that our current “Beneficiary Enterprises” receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, as all of our Israeli operations would consequently be subject to corporate tax at the standard rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by way of acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our current tax obligations. We have received Israeli government grants for certain of our research and development activities and we may receive additional grants in the future. The terms of those grants restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel, and we may be required to pay penalties in such cases or upon the sale of our company. From our inception through December 31, 2015, we received a total of $740,000 from the OCS. We may in the future apply to receive additional grants from the OCS to support our research and development activities. With respect to such grants we are committed to pay royalties at a rate of 3% to 3.5% on sales proceeds up to the total amount of grants received, linked to the dollar and bearing interest at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. Even after payment in full of these amounts, we will still be required to comply with the requirements of the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, or the R&D Law, and related regulations, with respect to those past grants. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using OCS grants, the terms of these grants and the R&D Law restrict the transfer outside of Israel of such know-how, and the manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how, without the prior approval of the OCS. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel or may not grant such approvals at all. The transfer of OCS-supported technology or know-how outside of Israel may involve the payment of significant amounts to the OCS, depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of OCS support, the time of completion of the OCS-supported research project and other factors. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. In addition to the above, any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, (i) becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, (ii) is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer or (iii) serves as one of our directors or as our chief executive officer (including holders of 25% or more of the voting power, equity or the right to nominate directors in such direct holder, if applicable) is required to notify the OCS and undertake to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to the grant programs of the OCS, including the restrictions on transfer described above.31We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, and recent decisions by the Israeli Supreme Court and the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, employees may be entitled to remuneration for intellectual property that they develop for us unless they explicitly waive any such rights, although the validity of any such waivers remains open to judicial review. Although we enter into agreements with our employees pursuant to which they agree that any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement are owned exclusively by us, we may face claims demanding remuneration. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares are tendered. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer (unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek appraisal rights), may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. Our articles of association provide that our directors (other than external directors) are elected on a staggered basis, such that a potential acquirer cannot readily replace our entire board of directors at a single annual general shareholder meeting. This could prevent a potential acquirer from receiving board approval for an acquisition proposal that our board of directors opposes. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers involving an exchange of shares, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us, our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Although the majority of our directors and executive officers reside within the United States and most of the assets of these persons are also likely located within the United States, some of our directors and officers reside and may have the majority of their assets outside the United States. Additionally, most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or those of our directors and executive officers residing outside of the United States, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process in the United States on those directors and executive officers residing outside of the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may be able to collect only limited, or may be unable to collect any, damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. 32Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.