D. Risk Factors An investment in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. An investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 20-F before making an investment in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs and, as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and an investor could lose all or part of its investment. This Annual Report on Form 20-F also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Introduction — Forward-Looking Statements.” Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business There is no assurance that monocular camera processing will be the dominant sensor modality in the ADAS industry. Although we believe that monocular camera processing, the technology behind our ADAS, is, and will continue to be, the industry standard for ADAS, it is possible that other sensor modalities, such as radar or lidar — or a new, disruptive modality based on new or existing technology — will achieve acceptance or dominance in the market. If ADAS based on other sensory modalities gain acceptance by the market, regulators and safety organizations in place of or as a substitute for monocular camera processing, and we do not win additional production models to the same extent as we have to date, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to develop and introduce new ADAS functions and improve existing functions in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business and future operating results will depend on our ability to complete development of existing ADAS programs and to develop and introduce new and enhanced ADAS functions that incorporate the latest technological advancements in outdoor image processing hardware, software and camera technologies and to satisfy evolving customer, regulatory and safety rating requirements. This will require us to invest resources in research and development and also require that we: • design innovative and safety- and comfort-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; ​ • cooperate effectively on new designs with our OEM and Tier 1 customers; ​ • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by our competitors; and ​ • adjust to changing market conditions and regulatory and rating standards quickly and cost-effectively. ​ If there are delays in or we fail to complete our existing and new development programs, we may not be able to win additional production models or satisfy our OEM customers’ requirements, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that our investment in research and development will lead to any corresponding increase in revenue, in which case our business, results of operations and financial condition would also be adversely affected. We depend on STMicroelectronics N.V. to manufacture our EyeQ® chips. We currently purchase all of our EyeQ® chips from STMicroelectronics N.V. All of our EyeQ® chips are currently produced at a single facility in France. Since our EyeQ® chip is incorporated in all of our products, any problems that occur and persist in connection with the manufacture, delivery, quality or cost of the assembly and testing of our EyeQ® chips could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that might not be fully offset by any inventory of EyeQ® chips that we maintain. Because of the complex proprietary nature of our EyeQ® chips, any transition from STMicroelectronics N.V. to a new supplier or, if there were a disaster at the facility, bringing a new facility online, would take a significant period of time to complete and could potentially result in our having insufficient inventory, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our contractual relationship with STMicroelectronics N.V. does not lock in rates for the long term, and both we and STMicroelectronics N.V. are free to terminate the arrangement at any time. Further, we are vulnerable to the risk that STMicroelectronics N.V. may become bankrupt. We may incur material costs as a result of actual or alleged product defects, product liability suits, and warranty and recall claims. Our software and EyeQ® chips are complex and could have, or could be alleged to have, defects in design or manufacturing or other errors or failures. STMicroelectronics N.V. is responsible for quality control and procedures for testing and manufacturing of our EyeQ® chips to our specifications, but we retain liability for failure in production caused by defective EyeQ® chip design or error, or if the software design does not function as represented. Material defects in any of our products could thus result in decreasing revenues due to adverse publicity, increased operating costs due to legal expenses and the possibility of consumer products liability. Although we have product liability insurance of up to an aggregate of $50 million, there is no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover all of our potential losses. Accordingly, we could experience significant costs, including defense costs, if we were required to recall our products or if we experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future. Product liability claims present the risk of protracted litigation, financial damages, legal fees and diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. We use disclaimers, limitations of liability and similar provisions in our agreements, but we have no assurance that any or all of these provisions will prove to be effective barriers to product liability claims. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Furthermore, the automotive industry in general is subject to litigation claims due to the nature of personal injuries that result from traffic accidents. As a provider of products related to, among other things, preventing traffic accidents, we could be subject to litigation for traffic-related accidents, even if our products or services or the failure thereof did not cause any particular accident. The emerging technologies of ADAS and autonomous driving have not yet been litigated or legislated to a point whereby their legal implications are well documented. As a provider of such products, we may become liable for losses that exceed the current industry and regulatory norms. If such a punitive liability landscape develops, we may also incur demand-related losses due to a reduction in the number of OEMs offering such technology. In the event that we are required to pay significant damages as a result of one or more lawsuits that are not covered by insurance or that exceed our coverage limits, it could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The defense against such claims — even if they are ultimately unsuccessful — could cause us to incur significant expenses and result in a diversion of management’s attention. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products if the defect or the alleged defect relates to motor vehicle safety. OEMs are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims. Depending on the terms under which we supply our products, an OEM may hold us (through our Tier 1 customer that sold our products to the OEM) responsible for some or all of the entire repair or replacement costs of these products under the OEM’s new vehicle warranties. Our costs associated with recalls or providing product warranties could be material. Product liability, warranty and recall costs could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We invest effort and money seeking OEM validation of our products, and there can be no assurance that we will win production models, which could adversely affect our future business, results of operations and financial condition. We invest effort and money from the time of our initial contact with an OEM to the date on which the OEM chooses our technology for ADAS applications to be incorporated into one or more specific vehicle models to be produced by the OEM. The OEM acquires our products through a Tier 1 supplier, which integrates our proprietary software and EyeQ® chip into a complete ADAS product that it manufactures. This selection process is known as a “design win.” We could expend our resources without success. After a design win, it is typically quite difficult for a product or technology that did not receive the design win to displace the winner until the OEM issues a new request for quotation (“RFQ”) because it is very unlikely that an OEM will change complex technology until a vehicle model is revamped. In addition, the firm with the winning design may have an advantage with the OEM going forward because of the established relationship between the winning firm and such OEM, which could make it more difficult for such firm’s competitors to win the designs for other production models. If we fail to win a significant number of OEM design competitions in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The period of time from a design win to implementation is long and we are subject to the risks of cancellation or postponement of the contract or unsuccessful implementation. Our products are technologically complex, incorporate many technological innovations and are typically intended for use in safety applications. Prospective OEM customers generally must make significant commitments of resources to test and validate our products before including them in any particular model vehicle. The development cycles of our products with new OEM customers are approximately one to three years after a design win, depending on the OEM and the complexity of the product. These development cycles result in our investing our resources prior to realizing any revenues from the production models. Further, we are subject to the risk that an OEM cancels or postpones implementation of our technology, as well as that we will not be able to implement our technology successfully. Further, our sales could be less than forecast if the vehicle model is unsuccessful, including for reasons unrelated to our technology. Long development cycles and product cancellations or postponements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on our Founders. We are dependent on Professor Amnon Shashua, our co-Founder, Chief Technology Officer, Chairman and a director, and Mr. Ziv Aviram, our co-Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer and a 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS director. We refer to them as our “Founders.” Both Founders have substantial equity holdings in us. Mobileye Vision Technologies Ltd., our Israeli subsidiary (“MVT”), has entered into employment agreements with Professor Shashua and Mr. Aviram. Under these agreements, Professor Shashua and Mr. Aviram are also not permitted to compete with us or to hire our employees during the term of their employment and for 18 months thereafter if they were to leave our company for any reason. Furthermore, each of Professor Amnon Shashua and Ziv Aviram has agreed not to terminate his employment until the earlier of the third anniversary of the closing of our IPO, or August 6, 2017, or an Acquisition (as defined), and has agreed not to compete with us or to solicit any of our employees, subject to customary exceptions. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Company Founders Agreement.” The enforceability of non-competition covenants in Israel is subject to limitations. In addition, we do not have key-man life insurance for either of our Founders. Pursuant to his employment agreement, Professor Shashua is permitted to spend up to 50 hours per month on teaching and graduate student supervision at the Hebrew University and on business activities unrelated to us, so long as such activities do not involve companies in businesses substantially similar to our business. Pursuant to his agreement, Mr. Aviram is also permitted to spend up to 20 hours per month on business activities unrelated to us so long as such activities do not involve companies in businesses substantially similar to our business. Professor Shashua is a co-founder and the Chief Technology Officer and Chairman of OrCam, which recently launched an assistive product for the visually impaired based on advanced computerized visual interpretation capabilities. Mr. Aviram is also a co-founder and is the President and Chief Executive Officer of OrCam. Each of them is expected to spend a part of his permitted time unrelated to us on OrCam. For additional information about our relationship with OrCam, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Relationship with OrCam Technologies Ltd.” The loss of either Professor Shashua or Mr. Aviram or other key members of management, or a significant diminution in their contribution to us, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel, which could seriously harm our business. We compete in a market that involves rapidly changing technological and other developments, which requires us to employ a workforce with a broad set of expertise and intellectual capital. In order for us to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary software, engineering, technical and other personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. The market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel, retaining current personnel or effectively replacing current personnel who may depart. We cannot assure you that qualified employees will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on licenses for certain technologies from third parties for which we pay royalties. We integrate certain technologies developed and owned by third parties into our products, including the central processing unit core of our EyeQ® chips, through license and technology transfer agreements. Under these agreements, we are obligated to pay royalties for each unit of our products that we sell that incorporates such third party technology. If we are unable to maintain our contractual relationships with the third party licensors on which we depend, we may not be able to find replacement technology to integrate into our products on a timely basis or for a similar royalty fee, in which case our business, results of operations and financial condition would also be adversely affected. Our aftermarket segment is subject to a number of risks, including our ability to forecast demand for our aftermarket products, our ability to market our aftermarket products effectively and risks related to the manufacture of our aftermarket products in China. We sell our aftermarket products in part through independent dealers and distributors worldwide. If we and our dealers and distributors do not forecast demand accurately, we may not be able to supply them with sufficient products in a timely manner, which could cause our results of operations to suffer and adversely affect our relationships with our dealers and distributors. In the future, we may not be able to retain or 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. Failure to maintain relationships with dealers and distributors, or to expand our aftermarket products distribution channels, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ADAS aftermarket products are also relatively new. We seek to sell our aftermarket products in bulk to fleets, telematics providers, insurance companies and other potential bulk purchasers as a way for them to, depending on their particular needs, monitor and analyze driver behavior, set premiums, reduce costs and otherwise prevent accidents. If we are not able to market our aftermarket products effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our aftermarket products are manufactured by a contract manufacturer in China that provides surface-mount technology services as well as assembly, testing, packaging and logistics services. The Chinese contract manufacturer is subject to laws, regulations, duties and tariffs of the Chinese government. In the future China may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could affect our ability to procure our aftermarket products or sell our aftermarket products at affordable prices, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we had to replace this contract manufacturer for any reason, we believe it could take between four to nine months to have a new manufacturer at full capacity. There is no assurance that the costs of such a new arrangement might not exceed our current costs, and during the transition period, it is possible that we might not have sufficient inventory and our aftermarket sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our aftermarket products, including electronic and electro-mechanical components, finished sub-components, molded plastic and rubber parts. Some of the parts for our aftermarket products, including the camera and certain mechanical parts, are provided by sole suppliers. Replacing those parts would take time and could also involve engineering efforts. Although we maintain inventory of product parts, it is possible that the amount of products needed at any given time will exceed our inventory levels, which would hinder our ability to sell aftermarket products. Moreover, if the costs for products components increase, and we cannot pass the increased costs on to our customers in whole or in part, the profitability of our aftermarket segment would decrease. Our business would be adversely affected if certain OEMs were to change their ADAS technology and not include our products in future models. In 2014, sales through our Tier 1 suppliers to each of four OEMs accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. Revenues related to these four main OEM customers were comprised of sales attributable to 85 car models of which four production programs each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. We currently are in production phase with 22 OEMs for 247 car models by 2016 through arrangements with Tier 1 companies. We also have a number of advanced development and production programs with other OEMs. We have separate production programs for each vehicle model included in an RFQ that incorporates our products. However, if any OEM were to determine not to incorporate our technology in their future models generally, or if we fail to win a significant number of additional future models from one or more OEMs, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory, we could lose sales. Changing consumer demands and uncertainty surrounding new vehicle model launches could expose us to inventory risk. Demand for ADAS technology, particularly vehicle models containing our products, could change unexpectedly, and it is possible that we will not be able to time our purchases of inventory to coincide with OEM requirements. We cannot assure you that we can accurately predict OEM demand and avoid under-stocking our EyeQ® chips, which could cause us to lose sales. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, and our efforts to do so may be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors could be able to access our proprietary technology and our business, results of operations and 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies or systems. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop similar products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. In addition, any litigation initiated by us concerning the violation by third parties of our intellectual property rights is likely to be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to the invalidation of, or render unenforceable, our intellectual property, or could otherwise have negative consequences for us. We have been, and in the future may be, a party to claims and litigation as a result of alleged infringement by third parties of our intellectual property. Even when we sue other parties for such infringement, that suit may have adverse consequences for our business. Any such suit may be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and may divert our management’s time and attention from our business. Furthermore, it could result in a court or governmental agency invalidating or rendering unenforceable our patents or other intellectual property rights upon which the suit is based, which would seriously harm our business. We may become subject to litigation brought by third parties claiming infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. The industry in which our business operates is characterized by a large number of patents, some of which may be of questionable scope, validity or enforceability, and some of which may appear to overlap with other issued patents. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty in the industry regarding patent protection and infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation globally involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could become subject to claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of third-party patents and other intellectual property generally, including by academic institutions. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if resolved adversely to us, could subject us to significant liability for damages, impose temporary or permanent injunctions against our products or business operations, or invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property. In addition, because patent applications can take many years until the patents issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringes a valid and enforceable patent, or if we wish to avoid potential intellectual property litigation on any alleged infringement of such products, we could be prevented from selling, or elect not to sell, such products unless we obtain a license, which may be unavailable. Alternatively, we could be forced to pay substantial royalties or to redesign one or more of our products to avoid any infringement or allegations thereof. Additionally, we may face liability to our customers, business partners or third parties for indemnification or other remedies in the event that they are sued for infringement in connection with their use of our products. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our products to avoid any alleged infringement. A successful claim of infringement against us, or our failure or inability to develop and implement non-infringing technology, or license the infringed technology, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention from our business, which could seriously harm our business. Also, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, could seriously harm our reputation with our OEMs and Tier 1 customers and in the industry at large. We may be required to pay monetary remuneration to employees who develop inventions, even if the rights to such inventions have been assigned to us. We enter into agreements with our employees pursuant to which such individuals agree that any inventions created in the scope of their employment are assigned to us or owned exclusively by us, depending on the jurisdiction, without the employee retaining any rights. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee during the scope 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS of his or her employment with a company are regarded as “service inventions,” which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between the employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee, the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, or the Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, shall determine whether the employee is entitled to remuneration for his or her inventions. Recent decisions by the Committee and the Israeli Supreme Court have created uncertainty in this area, as the Supreme Court held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. There is currently a motion pending before the Israeli Supreme Court challenging a May 2014 decision of the Committee that provided that, depending on the circumstances, a generally phrased waiver of claims may suffice as a waiver of the right to receive remuneration under the Patents Law. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration. Although our employees have agreed that any rights related to their inventions are owned exclusively by us, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for such acknowledgement. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We rely on proprietary information (such as trade secrets, know-how and confidential information) to protect intellectual property that may not be patentable, or that we believe is best protected by means that do not require public disclosure. We generally seek to protect this proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements, or consulting, services or employment agreements that contain non-disclosure and non-use provisions with our employees, consultants, contractors, scientific advisors and third parties. However, we may fail to enter into the necessary agreements, and even if entered into, these agreements may be breached or may otherwise fail to prevent disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary information, may be limited as to their term and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure or use of proprietary information. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our third-party manufacturers and suppliers and could lose future trade secret protection if any unauthorized disclosure of such information occurs. In addition, our proprietary information may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. To the extent that our employees, consultants, contractors, scientific advisors and other third parties use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain protection for our proprietary information could adversely affect our competitive business position. Furthermore, laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets where we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. We also rely on physical and electronic security measures to protect our proprietary information, but we cannot provide assurance that these security measures will not be breached or provide adequate protection for our property. There is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize our proprietary information to our competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to detect or prevent the unauthorized use of such information or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we acquire companies, assets, products or technologies, we may face integration risks and costs associated with those acquisitions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. We do not have any present commitments to acquire any specific companies, assets, products or technologies, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Furthermore, such acquisition may be subject to shareholder approval under the provisions of Dutch law or the requirements of the NYSE, which may not be obtained. If we acquire any such companies, assets, products or technologies, we may face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations of an acquired 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. Any failure to successfully integrate other companies, assets, products or technologies that we may acquire may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Disruptions to our IT system may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our servers and equipment may be subject to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with computer systems. We can provide no assurance that our current information technology (“IT”) system is fully protected against third-party intrusions, viruses, hacker attacks, information or data theft or other similar threats. A cyber-attack that bypasses our IT security systems causing an IT security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business until we recover using our back-up information. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer programs or misappropriation or release of our confidential data or our intellectual property, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Although we had net income in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the year ended December 31, 2013, we had a net loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the year ended December 31, 2014, and there is no assurance that we will become and remain profitable. Mobileye has a history of losses. Although we were profitable on both an operating profit and net income basis as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP in 2013, we had a net loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP in 2014 and an accumulated deficit of $131.0 million as of December 31, 2014. If our revenue does not grow sufficiently, or if increases in our research and development costs and other operating expenses are not followed by commensurate increases in revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Additionally, we might not be able to decrease our research and development costs or our operating expenses, many of which are fixed, if our revenue does not grow at a sufficient rate. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our profitability in the future. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Since inception through December 31, 2014, our accumulated deficit was $131.0 million and we generated net income only in 2013. A majority of our operating expenses are for research and development activities. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • technological advancements; ​ • market acceptance of our products and product enhancements, and the overall level of sales of our products; ​ • research and development expenses; ​ • our relationships with OEMs, Tier 1 customers and suppliers; ​ • our ability to control costs; ​ • sales and marketing expenses; ​ • enhancements to our infrastructure and systems and any capital improvements to our facilities; ​ • potential acquisitions of businesses and product lines; and ​ • general economic conditions, including the effects of international conflicts and their impact on the automotive industry in particular. ​ ​ 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that point in time will be reduced. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. We are exposed to currency fluctuations. Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our operating expenses are accrued in New Israeli Shekels (primarily related to payroll) and, to a lesser extent, the Euro and other currencies. Our profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel, and, to a lesser extent, the Euro and other currencies in which we generate revenues, incur expenses and maintain cash balances. We generate revenues in New Israeli Shekels that partially offset the New Israeli Shekel exposure. Our prices in most countries are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Although our products are mainly purchased in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations may also affect the prices of our products. If there is a significant devaluation of a particular currency, the prices of our products will increase relative to the local currency and may be less competitive. Despite our efforts to minimize foreign currency risks, significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular a significant change in the relative values of New Israeli Shekel and, to a much lesser extent, the Euro and other currencies against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. For example, an increase of 1% in the value of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar would have increased our expenses by approximately $0.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2014. Although we seek to limit our exposure to currency exchange rate risk by maintaining similar levels of assets and liabilities in New Israeli Shekels and U.S. dollars, to the extent commercially feasible, we cannot fully eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. In addition to risks related to currency exchange rates, these risks include changes in exchange controls, changes in taxation, importation limitations, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of applicable laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, economic and political instability, disputes between countries, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Adverse conditions in the automotive industry or the global economy more generally could have adverse effects on our results of operations. Our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences, changes in interest rate levels and credit availability, consumer confidence, fuel costs, fuel availability, environmental impact, governmental incentives and regulatory requirements, and political volatility, especially in energy-producing countries and growth markets. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by our OEM customers’ ability to continue operating in response to challenging economic conditions, such as the financial crisis that began in 2007, and in response to labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Globally, OEMs and their suppliers continue to experience significant difficulties from weakened economies and tightened credit markets, and many are still recovering from the financial crisis. The volume of automotive production in North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant adverse change in any of these factors, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions and the resulting bankruptcy of an OEM customer or the closure of an OEM manufacturing facility, may result in a reduction in automotive sales and production by our OEM customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If there is a slowing of the increasing requirements for active safety technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We have seen an increased demand for our technology and the growth of our business that correlates with driver awareness and acceptance of the safety features our ADAS provides. This acceptance and awareness is primarily due to the influence of regulators and safety organizations that provide both mandates and incentives, such as star ratings, to OEMs to include active safety technology in their vehicle models. We believe that this trend in regulation and ratings will continue and even accelerate over the next decade, thus increasing awareness and acceptance of, and consequently demand for, active safety technology. However, should there be a slowing of the increasing requirements for active safety technology, our growth might be limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If our OEM customers are unable to maintain and increase consumer acceptance of ADAS technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of OEMs to maintain and increase consumer acceptance of ADAS generally and of our camera-based technology and autonomous driving specifically. There is no assurance that OEMs can achieve these objectives. Market acceptance of ADAS, our camera-based technology and autonomous driving depends upon many factors, including regulatory requirements, evolving safety standards, cost and driver preferences. Market acceptance of our products also depends on the ability of market participants, including Mobileye, to resolve technical challenges for increasingly complex ADAS in a timely and cost-effective manner. Consumers will also need to be made aware of the advantages of our camera-based ADAS compared to competing technologies, specifically those with different sensor modalities such as radar or lidar. If consumer acceptance of ADAS technology in the OEM market does not increase, sales of our aftermarket products could also be adversely affected. Autonomous driving is a complex set of technologies and there is no assurance that additional autonomous driving applications will develop in the near future or that a market for fully autonomous driving will develop. Autonomous driving is a complex set of technologies, which requires the continuing development of both sensing technology and control technology. Functions and capabilities are in different stages of development and their reliability must continue to improve in order to meet the higher standards required for autonomous driving. Sensing technology provides information to the car and includes new sensors, communication and guidance technology, and software. Although we have design wins with four OEMs and development programs with four additional OEMs for hands-free highway driving, there can be no assurance that we can finalize the development and validate that our technology has the necessary reliability for fully autonomous driving. Similarly, we are still in early development of our next generation self-driving features (namely, our country road capabilities and city traffic capabilities), which will require significant algorithmic innovation by us. There can be no assurance that we can complete such development in a timely manner. If we cannot achieve design wins for these additional capabilities or if, following any such design win, our product is not fully validated and does not go into serial production, our future business prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, we do not develop control technology for serial production, such as brakes and steering. Although control functions already are in production for such applications as Autonomous Emergency Braking, Lane Keeping and Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control, there can be no assurance that those applications can be developed and validated at the high reliability standard required in a cost-effective and timely manner. If the control technology is not ready to be deployed in vehicle models when our sensing technology is ready, launch of serial production could be delayed, perhaps for a significant time period, 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS which could also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are also a number of additional challenges to autonomous driving, all of which are not within our control, including market acceptance of autonomous driving, particularly fully autonomous driving, state licensing requirements, concerns regarding electronic security and privacy, actual and threatened litigation (whether or not a judgment is rendered against us) and the general perception that the vehicle is not safe because there is no human driver. There can be no assurance that the market will accept any vehicle model including our technology, in which case our future business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive market. The ADAS industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on technology, innovation, quality, delivery and price. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop superior advanced technology and to maintain our leading competitive position with respect to our technological advances over our existing and any new competitors. Although we believe that we are the only provider of ADAS with the amount and type of validation data necessary to compete effectively in the ADAS industry, and that there are significant other barriers to developing a feasible competing sensory modality, we face potential competition from Tier 1 companies and other technology companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do. For example, Google Inc.’s autonomous car program has received significant public attention. It is possible that a competitor or potential competitor, including Google Inc., could create a competitive ADAS that gains significant market share, although we believe that they would experience the same five-to-seven year development timeline with an OEM as we do. If we were to lose a significant number of design wins to a new entrant, our future business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. Although we are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands, our headquarters and research and development center are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there continues to be unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which has continued with varying levels of severity, and ongoing hostilities and armed conflicts between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The effects of these hostilities and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations are unclear, and we cannot predict the effect on us of a further increase in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli aftermarket product subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations, which may cause delays in the distribution and sale of our aftermarket products. In the event that our principal executive office is damaged as a result of hostile action, or hostilities otherwise disrupt the ongoing operation of our offices, our ability to operate could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, since 2011, there has been civil war in Syria and since early 2013, the region has seen the growth of the “Islamic State” and increased internal hostilities in Iraq. The impact of these circumstances on Israel’s relations with its Arab neighbors, in general, or on our operations in the region, in particular, remains uncertain. The establishment of new fundamentalist Islamic regimes or governments more hostile to Israel could have serious consequences for the peace and stability in the region, place additional political, economic and military confines upon Israel, materially adversely affect our operations and limit our ability to sell our products to countries in the region. Additionally, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries and groups have imposed or may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel or political instability in the region continues or increases. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to obtain manufactured components and raw materials from these countries or sell our products to companies in these countries. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli military and are subject to being called for additional active duty under emergency circumstances. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. We cannot predict the full impact of these conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances or an escalation in the political situation occurs. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may not be able to function at full capacity, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The tax benefits that are available to us under Israeli law require us to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes. Our Israeli subsidiary was eligible for certain tax benefits provided to “Benefited Enterprises” under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. In May 2014, our Israeli subsidiary made an election, effective as of January 1, 2014, under the Investment Law to change its tax status from a “Benefited Enterprise” to a “Preferred Company” in connection with a July 2014 ruling we received from the Israeli Tax Authority. We believe this ruling will provide us with benefits, subject to the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the law and of the ruling. Specifically, the standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies was increased to 25% in 2012 and 2013 and further increased to 26.5% for 2014 and thereafter. We expect to benefit from a tax rate of 9% as a “Preferred Company.” If these tax benefits are reduced, cancelled or discontinued, for whatever reason including lack of compliance with the requirements of the law and the ruling, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to standard Israeli corporate tax rates and we may be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received, plus indexation, interest and penalties thereon. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel through acquisitions, for example, our expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Material Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs — Israeli Taxation and Government Programs — Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” The Israeli government may furthermore independently determine to reduce, phase out or eliminate entirely the benefit programs under the Investment Law, regardless of whether we then qualify for benefits under those programs at the time, which would also adversely affect our global tax rate and our results of operations. See Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F for a discussion of our current tax obligations. See also “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Corporate Information and Reorganization.” Our income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. Computations of our taxes on income and withholding obligations are complex because they are based on the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions. These computations require significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provisions under GAAP. The international nature of our structure and operations creates uncertainties as to the allocation of our global results among the various jurisdictions in which we operate as a result of different rules regarding taxable presence and changes thereto, allocations and transfer pricing. Taxes on income for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward looking financial projections. Such financial projections are based on numerous assumptions, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction. We may not accurately forecast the various items that comprise the projections. In addition, in connection with our reorganization into Israel (see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Factors Affecting Our Operating Results — Reorganization”), although we have received opinions from Cyprus counsel and Dutch counsel that the reorganization should not result in any tax liabilities under the laws of Cyprus or The Netherlands, there can be no assurance that the relevant tax authorities might determine that such taxes are not owed. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The stock market in general has been, and the market price of our ordinary shares in particular is, subject to fluctuation, whether due to, or irrespective of, our operating results and financial condition. The market price of our ordinary shares on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • announcements by regulators, new car assessment programs and other safety organizations regarding ADAS and related technology; ​ • market acceptance of our products; ​ • announcements of the results of research and development projects by us or our competitors; ​ • announcements by others relating to ADAS technology and its adoption by OEMs; ​ • development of new competitive systems and products by others; ​ • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; ​ • developments concerning our intellectual property rights; ​ • loss of key personnel, particularly our Founders; ​ • changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations; ​ • loss of key customers; ​ • delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced products and the generation of sales from those products; ​ • changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; ​ • changes in our research and development and operating expenditures; ​ • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations and financial condition; ​ • our sale or proposed sale or the sale by our significant shareholders of our ordinary shares or other securities in the future; and ​ • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. ​ These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses being incurred by our investors. Market prices for securities of technology companies historically have been very volatile. The market for these securities has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of any one company. In the past, following periods of market volatility, public company shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation in the United States. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could impose a substantial cost upon us and divert the resources and attention of our management from our business. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: • fluctuations in demand for our products; ​ • our ability to correlate our inventory purchases with OEM orders; ​ • seasonal cycles in consumer spending on vehicles; ​ • our ability to design, manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner; ​ ​ 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the timing of the introduction of new vehicle models containing our products; ​ • our ability to timely obtain adequate quantities of the components used in our products; ​ • unanticipated increases in costs or expenses; and ​ • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. ​ For example, we typically experience our lowest sales in the first calendar quarter, but this apparent seasonality has been partially masked because of our overall growth in revenues in recent years. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively fixed due to our research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder will be governed by Dutch law, which may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. corporations. We are incorporated under Dutch law and the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and Dutch law. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from the rights of shareholders and responsibilities of directors in companies governed by the laws of U.S jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors will be required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Board Practices,” “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Directors and Senior Management” and “Item 10. Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — Differences in Corporate Law.” Our Founders have a significant level of control over most matters requiring shareholder approval. Professor Amnon Shashua and Mr. Ziv Aviram control 9.1% and 9.2%, respectively, of our ordinary shares. If they were to act in concert, our Founders would be able to exercise a significant level of control over most matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our articles of association and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and could make the approval of certain transactions difficult without their support, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares over the then-current market price. Further, our Founders are not prohibited from selling their interests in us to a third party and may do so without shareholder approval and without providing for a purchase of other shareholders’ ordinary shares. For additional information on these shareholdings, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Directors and Senior Management” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” Our articles of association contain provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions of our articles of association impose various procedural and other requirements that may make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our articles of association provide that our shareholders may only suspend or remove the members of our board of directors when two-thirds of the votes are cast in favor of the resolution for suspension or removal, provided that the votes cast in favor of the resolution represent more than 50% of all of our issued and outstanding shares. In addition, under our articles of association the following actions can only be taken by us when two-thirds of the votes are cast in favor of the resolution for taking the relevant action, provided that the votes cast in favor of the resolution represent more than 50% of all issued and outstanding shares: 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS • amendment of our articles of association; ​ • sale of all or substantially all of our business; ​ • certain joint ventures and divestitures that require shareholder approval under Dutch law; ​ • statutory merger or statutory demerger of the Company; ​ • liquidation or dissolution of the Company; and ​ • acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies for an amount in excess of 20% of our average market capitalization during a period of up to 30 days (as determined by our board of directors) prior to execution of a definitive agreement for the acquisition or investment. ​ In addition, all of the actions described above, as well as any acquisition by us of, or investment by us in, another company which is required to be approved by shareholders under Dutch law, can only be taken pursuant to a proposal by our board of directors. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — General Meeting of Shareholders” for more detailed information. Moreover, our general meeting of shareholders has adopted a resolution delegating to our board of directors the power to issue shares and to grant options, warrants or other rights to acquire shares, and to exclude pre-emptive rights with respect to all issuances of shares and grants of the right to acquire shares. This resolution will continue in force until July 10, 2019. We also expect to propose a similar resolution for approval in future annual shareholders meetings. Based on this delegation of authority, our board of directors will have the authority to issue shares at such prices (but generally not less than nominal value), and upon such terms and conditions, as our board of directors deems appropriate, based on its determination of what is in our best interests at the time shares are issued or the right to acquire shares is granted. Our board of directors also has the authority to exclude pre-emptive rights with respect to any issuance of shares or grant of the right to acquire shares, if, in its discretion, it believes that any such exclusion is in our best interests. Issuance of shares by our board of directors could, depending on the circumstances, have the effect of making it more difficult for a hostile acquirer to take control of the Company. In evaluating a response to a takeover offer, whether hostile or friendly, our board of directors is required under Dutch law to take into account not only the interests of shareholders, but also the interests of all other stakeholders in the Company, including employees, creditors, customers and other contract parties. Under this legal standard, our board of directors would be authorized to reject a takeover offer that it views as less beneficial to the interests of our employees and other stakeholders than a competing offer, even if the rejected offer were for a higher price than the offer that is accepted. This rule would also apply in an “auction” situation where the Company is actively encouraging competing offers to acquire the Company or its business. Only approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year. The fact that not all of our directors will be elected each year could have the effect of delaying the date at which a hostile acquirer who acquires a controlling interest in our shares would be able to actually take control of the Company. We are a holding company. We are a holding company. Accordingly, our ability to conduct our operations, service any debt that we may incur in the future and pay dividends, if any, is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries, particularly MVT, our Israeli subsidiary. The distribution of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by our subsidiaries to us, as well as our receipt of such funds, are contingent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and are subject to various business considerations and applicable law, including the laws of The Netherlands and Israel. If our subsidiaries are unable to make sufficient distributions or advances to us, or if there are limitations on our ability to receive such distributions or advances, we may not have the cash resources necessary to conduct our corporate operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends since our incorporation. Even if future operations were to lead to significant levels of profits that would allow us to pay dividends, we currently intend to retain all available funds for reinvestment in our business. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our general meeting of shareholders, acting pursuant to a proposal by our board of directors, and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors or general meeting of shareholders may deem relevant. Moreover, future dividend distribution may be subject to additional tax at MVT. Accordingly, investors cannot rely on dividend income from our ordinary shares and any returns on an investment in our ordinary shares will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. domestic public company. We report under the Exchange Act as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we are subject to Dutch laws and regulations with regard to such matters and intend to furnish quarterly financial information to the SEC, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information (although we intend to provide quarterly information on Form 6-K), or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. We also follow Dutch laws and regulations that are applicable to publicly traded Dutch companies listed outside the European Union (the “EU”). However, Dutch laws and regulations applicable to Dutch companies whose shares are not listed on an EU securities exchange do not contain any provisions comparable to the U.S. proxy rules, the U.S. rules relating to the filing of reports on Form 10-Q or Form 8-K or the U.S. rules relating to liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time, as referred to above. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation FD, which is intended to prevent issuers from making selective disclosures of material information, although we are subject to Dutch laws and regulations having substantially the same effect as Regulation FD. As a result of all of the above, you do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of a company that is not a foreign private issuer. As we are a “foreign private issuer” and intend to follow certain home country corporate governance practices, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we have the option to follow certain Dutch corporate governance practices rather than those of the NYSE, provided that we disclose the requirements we are not following and describe the home country practices we are following. We rely on this “foreign private issuer exemption” with respect to the NYSE requirements to have the Audit Committee appoint our external auditors, NYSE rules relating to quorums and record dates for shareholder meetings and NYSE rules requiring shareholders to approve equity compensation plans and material revisions thereto. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” We may in the future elect to follow home country practices in The Netherlands with regard to other matters. As a result, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. For an overview of our corporate governance practices, see also “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Board Practices.” 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We do not comply with certain requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Dutch public companies are encouraged to comply with the provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Dutch Corporate Governance Committee on December 9, 2003, as amended and restated in December 2008 (the “Dutch Code”). However, companies may elect not to comply with some or all of the provisions of the Dutch Code, provided that such non-compliance and the reasons for the non-compliance are disclosed. Most of the provisions of the Dutch Code are identical to, or substantially the same as, provisions applicable to publicly traded U.S. companies, and we intend to comply with those provisions of the Dutch Code. Other provisions of the Dutch Code, however, are contrary to customary market practice in the United States for publicly traded companies or are otherwise in our judgment inappropriate. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Board Practices — Dutch Corporate Governance Code.” We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies” will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”). For as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of SOX. As an “emerging growth company” we are required to report fewer years of selected historical financial data than that reported by other public companies. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years from the date of our IPO, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 (the end of our second fiscal quarter), in which case we would no longer be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31 (our fiscal year end). We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and the price of our ordinary shares may be more volatile. The requirements of being a public company in the United States may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Since our IPO in August 2014, we have been required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and regulatory requirements is time consuming, results in increased costs to us and could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of SOX. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we have committed significant resources, hired additional staff and provided additional management oversight. We have also implemented additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies in the United States. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of SOX (and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder). When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of SOX, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. See “Item 15D. Controls and Procedures — Changes in International Control Over Financial Reporting” for a discussion of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 that we identified prior to our IPO. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures annually and our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years from the date of our IPO. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, or cease to publish research about our business, the price of our ordinary shares and our trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares could depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities or industry analysts commenced coverage of our company following our IPO, and the effects of their research reports could adversely affect the trading price for our ordinary shares. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly or too few analysts cover our company, demand for our ordinary shares could decrease, which might cause the price of our ordinary shares and trading volume to decline. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if (taking into account certain look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries) for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares be treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain, and having interest charges apply to such sale proceeds. Because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization, a decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based upon our calculations, we believe that we were not a PFIC in 2014. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of a taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2015 or in any future year. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS​ It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in The Netherlands, Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in The Netherlands or Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in The Netherlands. None of our executive officers and a limited number of our directors are residents of the United States. Our principal offices and operations are located in the State of Israel. Our officers and some of our directors reside in the State of Israel and all or a significant portion of the assets of such officers and directors and substantially all of our assets are located in the State of Israel. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S., Israeli or Dutch court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. There is no treaty between the United States and The Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be enforceable in The Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court of competent jurisdiction. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements, grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim if (i) the relevant judgment is a final and conclusive money judgment in personam (other than for multiple or punitive damages, or for a fine or a tax or a penalty); (ii) that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process; (iii) that judgment does not contravene public policy of The Netherlands; (iv) the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal or state court rendering the judgment was compatible with internationally accepted principles in respect of jurisdictional matters; (v) the judgment was not obtained by fraud; and (vi) no new admissible relevant evidence is admitted in the Dutch courts. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or members of our board of directors or officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of The Netherlands or countries other than the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our board of directors or officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in The Netherlands against us or such directors or officers, respectively. Similarly, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the State of Israel, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws. 