Risk Factors Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares may be thinly traded and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our ordinary shares may be “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and might be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Broad or active public trading market for our ordinary shares may not develop or be sustained. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ordinary shares. Our board of directors has absolute discretion to refuse to register a transfer of any share to a person for any reason; provided, however, that if a transfer is refused, the board must provide a notice of such refusal to both the transferor and intended transferee. As such, your ability to transfer your ordinary shares may be restricted. 31 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We currently have 11,869,938 ordinary shares outstanding. 2,250,000 shares are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares include those held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act , as well as shares that will be eligible for sale at various times upon the expiration of lock-up agreements as described below and subject to the requirements of Rule 144 or Rule 701. Our directors, executive officers and many of our existing shareholders have agreed with limited exceptions that they will not sell any of our shares owned by them without the prior written consent of Axiom Capital Management, Inc., on behalf of the underwriters for our initial public offering, for a period of time ranging from 90 days to 360 days from the closing of our initial public offering. At any time and without public notice, Axiom Capital Management, Inc. may in its sole discretion release some or all of the securities from these lock-up agreements prior to the expiration of the lock-up period. As resale restrictions end, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. In addition, the holders of 1,160,000 of our ordinary shares are entitled to contractual rights to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. As of the date of this Report, 90,338 of these shares are subject to the 90-day lock-up period, and 979,775 of these shares are subject to the 180-day lock-up period. Subject to such lock-up periods, registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration statement. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder, as Cayman Islands law provides substantially less protection when compared to the laws of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (Revised) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the United States federal courts. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us or our officers, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of the assets of our consolidated affiliated entities are located outside of the United States. All such assets and our operations are conducted, and all of our revenue has been generated through sales, in China. In addition, both Yulong Zhu, our chief executive officer, and Zan Wu, our chief financial officer, as well as most of our directors, are nationals and residents of China, and do not have any of their assets in the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against the assets of our consolidated affiliated entities or the assets of Messrs. Zhu and Wu or any of our directors outside of the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Moreover, the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. 32 Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Our articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions, including, among other things: ● provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue additional ordinary shares and preferred shares with preferential rights determined by the board; ● provisions that impose advance notice requirements, minimum shareholding periods and ownership thresholds, and other requirements and limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; and ● any director that simultaneously serves as our chief executive officer is not subject to retirement or re-election. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies. For example: ● we are not required to provide as many Exchange Act reports, or as frequently, as a domestic public company; ● we are not required to provide the same level of disclosure on certain issues, such as executive compensation; ● for interim reporting, we are permitted to comply solely with our home country requirements, which are less rigorous than the rules that apply to domestic public companies; ● we are not required to comply with the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and ● we are not required to comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. We currently intend to file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K similar to U.S. domestic reporting companies and disclose the information required to be disclosed in those reports. However, we may elect in the future to file annual reports on Form 20-F and reports on Form 6-K as a foreign private issuer, but in no event sooner than after reporting on the forms for U.S. domestic reporting companies at least through fiscal year 2016. If we elected to file reports as a foreign private issuer, our shareholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We are an “emerging growth company,” and may elect to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, as well as a smaller reporting company, which could make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. In addition to being a foreign private issuer, we are also an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, or until the earliest of (1) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (2) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter and we have been publicly reporting for at least 12 months, or (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. Even if we no longer qualify for the exemptions for an emerging growth company, we may still be, in certain circumstances, subject to scaled disclosure requirements as a smaller reporting company. For example, smaller reporting companies, like emerging growth companies, are not required to provide a compensation discussion and analysis under Item 402(b) of Regulation S-K or auditor attestation of internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. 33 Being a public company will increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, requires certain corporate governance practices for public companies. In addition to these rules, the NASDAQ Stock Market has certain corporate governance requirements for companies that are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may also cause us to incur additional costs and subject us to risks if we are unable to fully comply. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and to make some operating and administrative activities more time consuming and costly, though we are not currently able to estimate these additional costs. Since becoming a public company, we have created several board committees and adopt additional internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. We now also have all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If analysis of our internal control over financial reporting concludes that these internal controls are not effective, investor confidence in our company may be adversely affected which in turn may affect the value of our ordinary shares. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2016, the first fiscal year beginning after our initial public offering. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting and, after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if, when required, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, if we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. However, if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any December 31 before that time, our revenues exceed $1 billion, or we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following June 30. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. 34 If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations and our reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, have in the past been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, became virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company and our business. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend the Company. This situation may be a major distraction to our management. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations will be severely hampered and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. Our failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anticorruption laws could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to the FCPA which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anticorruption laws. We are in the process of implementing policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. Such policies or procedures may not work effectively or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. Because we do business with state-owned enterprises and government agencies, we have and will continue to have frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations. Any investigation of a potential violation of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by the United States or foreign authorities could have an adverse impact on our reputation, and if we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Because we operate entirely in the PRC, this may give rise to elevated compliance risks on anti-bribery. In recent years, commercial bribery has increasingly been identified as a key risk in doing business in the PRC. If Chinese regulatory authorities determine that our marketing or other activity violates the anti-bribery or anticorruption laws, we may be penalized or ordered to cease such activity, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. Yulong has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its ordinary shares and does not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your ordinary shares for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in our ordinary shares will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased their shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequence to U.S. holders of ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and the nature and composition of our income and assets over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year. Based on assumptions as to our projections of the value of our outstanding ordinary shares and our expected use of the proceeds from our initial public offering and of the other cash that we will hold and generate in the ordinary course of our business, we do not expect to be a PFIC for the taxable year 2015 or in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2015 or any future taxable year as PFIC status is tested each taxable year and depends on the composition of our income and the value of our assets in such taxable year. Our PFIC status for the current taxable year 2015 will not be determinable until the close of the taxable year ending December 31, 2015. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either: (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets (the “asset test”), or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income (such as certain dividends, interest or royalties). For purposes of the asset test: (a) any cash and cash invested in short-term, interest bearing debt instruments, or bank deposits that are readily convertible into cash will generally count as producing passive income or as held for the production of passive income, and (b) the total value of our assets is calculated based on our market capitalization. Therefore, a drop in the market price of our ordinary shares would cause a reduction in the value of our non-passive assets for purposes of the asset test. Accordingly, we may become a PFIC if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. Until we deploy the net proceeds we receive from this offering, we may retain a significant portion of those net proceeds in the form of short-term investments or bank deposits for a prolonged period, which could affect our PFIC status in the 2015 taxable year and in future taxable years. 35 If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ordinary shares, and you are a U.S. Holder, you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions we make and on any gain recognized on your disposition or deemed disposition of our ordinary shares in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in the year of disposition or distribution. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which you hold our ordinary shares, we would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which you hold our ordinary shares unless we cease to meet the requirements for PFIC status and you make a “deemed sale” election with respect to such ordinary shares. Moreover, if we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ordinary shares, certain non-corporate U.S. shareholders would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution received from us on our ordinary shares in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. A U.S. shareholder of a PFIC generally may mitigate these adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences by making a "qualified electing fund" election, or, to a lesser extent, a "mark-to-market" election with respect to our ordinary shares. We do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. Holders to make “qualified electing fund” elections if we are classified as a PFIC. We do not maintain our books under U.S. GAAP, and because most of our directors and all of our accounting personnel have very limited, or no, U.S. GAAP experience, and we rely on consultants to prepare our financial statements, there is a higher risk that our financial statements will not accurately describe our financial condition. Our financial records are not maintained under U.S. GAAP. Other than our chief financial officer, we do not internally retain individuals that prepare our financial statements, and instead utilize an external contract-based consulting firm whose employees have knowledge of U.S. GAAP. Additionally, until the appointment of a director who will chair our audit committee, our board of directors and all of our accounting personnel have very limited, or no, relevant U.S. GAAP experience. These factors contribute to a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our company’s internal control over financial reporting, therefore leading to errors or omissions in our financial information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 