Item 1A, Risk Factors”. State and local government payors with which we have contracts have complicated billing and collection rules and regulations, and if we fail to meet such requirements, our business could be materially impacted. We derive approximately 90% of our revenue from contracts with state and local government agencies, and a substantial portion of this revenue is state-funded with federal Medicaid matching dollars. In billing for our services to third-party payors, we must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules and there can be delays before we receive payment. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and on industry practice. If we fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, we could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicaid programs, which could materially harm us. Specifically, failure to follow these rules could result in potential criminal or civil liability under the False Claims Act and various federal and state criminal healthcare fraud statutes, under which extensive financial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs can be imposed. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making or causing to be made a false statement to get a false claim paid. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs and criminal liability. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. See “—We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures, and a failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business.” We annually submit a large volume of claims for Medicaid and other payments, and there can be no assurance that there have not been errors. The rules are frequently vague and confusing, and we cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers, private whistleblowers or Medicaid auditors will not challenge our practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We are routinely subject to governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As a result of these reviews, audits and investigations, these governmental payors may be entitled to, at their discretion: • require us to refund amounts we have previously been paid; • terminate or modify our existing contracts; • suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts; • impose referral holds on us; • impose fines, penalties or other sanctions on us; and • reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts. 16 Table of Contents As a result of past reviews and audits of our operations, we have been and are subject to some of these actions from time to time. While we do not currently believe that our existing governmental reviews and audit proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or significantly harm our reputation, we cannot assure you that such actions or similar actions in the future will not do so. In addition, such proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in a future reporting period. Moreover, if we are required to restructure our billing and collection methods, these changes could be disruptive to our operations and costly to implement. Complicated billing and collection procedures can result in delays in collecting payment for our services, which may adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and operating results. The reimbursement process is time consuming and complex, and there can be delays before we receive payment. Government reimbursement, facility credentialing, Medicaid recipient eligibility and service authorization procedures are often complicated and burdensome, and delays can result from, among other things, securing documentation and coordinating necessary eligibility paperwork between agencies. Similar issues arise in seeking payment from some of our private payors. These reimbursement and procedural issues occasionally cause us to have to resubmit claims several times and manage other administrative requests before payment is remitted. Missed filing deadlines can cause rejections of claims. If there is a billing error, the process to resolve the error may be time-consuming and costly. To the extent that complexity associated with billing for our services causes delays in our cash collections, we assume the financial risk of increased carrying costs associated with the aging of our accounts receivable as well as increased potential for write-offs. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to collect payment for claims at our current levels in future periods. The risks associated with third-party payors and the inability to monitor and manage accounts receivable successfully could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. Our government payors rely on tax revenue to pay for our services. In the wake of the last economic recession that began in 2008, most states faced unprecedented declines in tax revenues and, as a result, record budget gaps. Furthermore, even after four years of economic improvement, at the end of 2013, inflation-adjusted tax revenues remained below peak levels in many states. If the economy were to contract into recession again, our government payors or other counterparties that owe us money could be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary funding and/or financing to meet their cash flow needs. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the Federal government’s credit rating and additional downgrades are possible in the future. In October 2013, Fitch Ratings placed the Federal government’s credit rating on negative watch. If the credit rating of the federal government is downgraded again, it is possible there will be related downgrades of state credit ratings as well. If this or unrelated state downgrades occur, this could make it more expensive for states to finance their cash flow needs and put additional pressure on state budgets. Delays in payment could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. In the event that our payors or other counterparties are financially unstable or delay payments to us, our financial condition could be further impaired if we are unable to borrow additional funds under our senior credit agreement to finance our operations. Our financial results could be adversely affected if claims against us are successful, to the extent we must make payments under our self-insured retentions, or if such claims are not covered by our applicable insurance or if the costs of our insurance coverage increase. We have been and continue to be subject to substantial claims against our professional and general liability and automobile liability insurance. Professional and general liability claims, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards which might require us to make significant payments under our self-insured retentions and increase future insurance costs. For claims made from October 1, 2011 to September 30, 2013, we were self-insured for the first $4.0 million of each and every claim with no aggregate limit. As of October 1, 2013, we are self-insured for $4.0 million per claim and $28.0 million in the aggregate. We may be subject to increased self-insurance retention limits in the future which could have a negative impact on our results. An award may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage, and awards for punitive damages may be excluded from our insurance policies either contractually or by operation of state law. In addition, our insurance does not cover all potential liabilities including, for example, those arising from employment practice claims, wage and hour violations, and governmental fines and penalties. As a result, we may become responsible for substantial damage awards that are uninsured. Insurance against professional and general liability and automobile liability can be expensive and our insurance premiums may increase in the future. Insurance rates vary from state to state, by type and by other factors. Rising costs of insurance premiums, as well as successful claims against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents It is also possible that our liability and other insurance coverage will not continue to be available at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. If payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, if claims are not covered by insurance, or if our insurers fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. The nature of services that we provide could subject us to significant workers’ compensation related liability, some of which may not be fully reserved for. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation claims. Because we have so many employees, and because of the inherent physical risk associated with the interaction of employees with our clients, many of whom have intensive care needs, the potential for incidents giving rise to workers’ compensation liability is high. We estimate liabilities associated with workers’ compensation risk and establish reserves each quarter based on internal valuations, third-party actuarial advice, historical loss development factors and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In prior years, our results of operations have been adversely impacted by higher than anticipated claims, and they may be adversely impacted in the future if actual occurrences and claims exceed our assumptions and historical trends. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act may materially increase our costs and/or make it harder for us to compete as an employer. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposed new mandates on employers and individuals. The mandate requiring all individuals to enroll in a health insurance plan deemed credible became effective on January 1, 2014, but the implementation of the requirement that all employers with 50 or more full-time employees provide to employees health insurance deemed credible or pay a penalty has been delayed until January 1, 2015. Despite the delayed implementation of the employer mandate, we redesigned our health benefits for calendar year 2014 to offer employees health coverage that meets the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Depending upon claims experience or enrollment changes in our new plans, our cost for employee health insurance could materially increase. Moreover, if the coverage we are offering isn’t competitive with the health insurance benefits our employees could receive at other employers, we may become less attractive as an employer and it may become more difficult for us to compete for qualified employees. We face substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced personnel, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced human service and other professionals, who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver quality services to our clients and manage our operations. We face competition for certain categories of our employees, particularly direct service professionals and managers, based on wages, benefits and other working conditions. Contractual requirements and client needs determine the number, as well as the education and experience levels, of health and human service professionals we hire. We face substantial turnover among our direct service professionals. Also, due to the nature of the services we provide, our working conditions require additional sensitivities and skills relative to traditional medical care environments. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with government agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, which could negatively impact our revenue. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government agencies, primarily at the state and local level but also including federal agencies. These relationships enable us to maintain and renew existing contracts and obtain new contracts and referrals. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated with changes in the personnel holding various government offices or staff positions. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships, and such personnel may not be subject to non-compete or non-solicitation covenants. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, and could negatively impact our revenue. 18 Table of Contents Negative publicity or changes in public perception of our services may adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and renew existing ones or obtain third-party referrals. Our success in obtaining new contracts and renewals of our existing contracts depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, advocacy groups, families of our clients, our clients and the public. Negative publicity, changes in public perception, quality lapses, legal proceedings and government investigations with respect to our operations could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to retain contracts and obtain new contracts, and could reduce referrals, increase government scrutiny and compliance or litigation costs, or generally discourage clients from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our reputation and prior experience with agency staff, care workers and others in positions to make referrals to us are important for building and maintaining our operations. Any event that harms our reputation or creates negative experiences with such third parties could impact our ability to receive referrals and maintain or grow our client base. A loss of our status as a licensed service provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of existing services and our inability to market our services in that jurisdiction. We operate in numerous jurisdictions and are required to maintain licenses and certifications in order to conduct our operations in each of them. Each state and local government has its own regulations, which can be complicated. Additionally, each of our service lines can be regulated differently within a particular jurisdiction. As a result, maintaining the necessary licenses and certifications to conduct our operations is cumbersome. Our licenses and certifications could be suspended, revoked or terminated for a number of reasons, including: • the failure by our direct care staff or host-home providers to properly care for clients; • the failure to submit proper documentation to the applicable government agency, including documentation supporting reimbursements for costs; • the failure by our programs to abide by the applicable laws and regulations relating to the provision of health and human services; and • the failure of our facilities to comply with the applicable building, health and safety codes and ordinances. From time to time, some of our licenses or certifications, or those of our employees, are temporarily placed on probationary status or suspended. If we lost our status as a licensed provider of health and human services in any jurisdiction or any other required certification, we would be unable to market our services in that jurisdiction, and the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction would be subject to termination. In providing services in certain jurisdictions, we subcontract to another provider. In those situations, the other provider may hold the license or certification. However, if the other provider’s license or certification were revoked or suspended, we may no longer be permitted to provide services in that jurisdiction. Loss of a license as a direct provider or subcontractor of another provider of health and human services could constitute a violation of provisions of contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in other contract, license or certification terminations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations. We have increased and will continue to make substantial expenditures to expand existing services, win new business and grow revenue, but we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such increased expenditures. In order to grow our business, we must capitalize on opportunities to expand existing services and win new business, some of which require spending in advance of revenue. For example, states such as California and New Jersey are in the process of closing state institutions and transitioning individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities into community-based settings such as ours. Responding to opportunities such as these typically requires significant investment of our resources in advance of revenue. In North Carolina, where we have made significant investments in an effort to expand periodic services for at-risk youth, the system continues to experience significant change that has required us to reorganize and restructure our operations and has resulted in a downsizing of our business there. In fiscal 2012, fiscal 2013 and the beginning of fiscal 2014, we increased significantly the amount spent on growth initiatives, especially new starts. This elevated level of growth investments has had a negative effect on our operating margin, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the spending as soon as we expect to or at any point in the future. If we target the wrong areas, or fail to identify the evolving needs of our payors by responding with service offerings that meet their fiscal and programmatic requirements, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and the results of our operations may suffer. 19 Table of Contents We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, and we may experience difficulties in integrating these acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to make acquisitions. Growing our business through acquisitions involves risks because with any acquisition there is the possibility that: • the business we acquire may not continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decision; • we may be unable to maintain and renew the contracts of the acquired business; • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the acquired operations, including employment practices, information systems and accounting controls; • we may not achieve operating efficiencies, synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions as expected; • we may be required to pay higher purchase prices for acquisitions than we have paid historically; • management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business; • we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities or there may be other unanticipated costs; • we may encounter unanticipated regulatory risk; • we may experience problems entering new markets or service lines in which we have limited or no experience; • we may fail to retain and assimilate key employees of the acquired business; • we may finance the acquisition by incurring additional debt and further increase our leverage ratios; and • the culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that any future acquisition will be successful or that it will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not successful in expanding into adjacent markets, our growth strategy could suffer. Our growth strategy depends on pursuing opportunities in adjacent markets, and we may not be successful in adapting our service models to markets or service lines in which we have little or no prior experience. Expanding into adjacent markets, such as services to elders and individuals with autism, mental health and substance abuse issues, will expose us to additional operational, regulatory and legal risks. Serving these populations may require compliance with additional federal and state laws and regulations, such as Medicare, which may differ from the laws and regulations that apply to the populations we currently serve. Compliance with new laws and regulations may result in unanticipated expenses or liabilities. Programs we open in adjacent markets may also take longer to reach expected revenue and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher occupancy or operating costs than programs in our existing markets, which may affect our overall profitability. Adjacent markets may have different payors, referral sources, staffing requirements, client preferences and competitive conditions. We may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and keep qualified direct care workers and other employees in these adjacent markets. We may need to augment our staffing to meet regulatory requirements, and the overall cost of labor may be higher. As a result, we may not be successful in diversifying the populations we serve, and we may fail to capture market share in adjacent markets. If any steps taken to expand our existing business into adjacent markets are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, which require significant compliance expenditures, and a failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with comprehensive government regulation of our business, including statutes, regulations and policies governing the licensing of our facilities, the maintenance and management of our work place for our employees, the quality of our service, the revenue we receive for our services and reimbursement for the cost of our services. Compliance with these laws, regulations and policies is expensive, and if we fail to comply with these laws, regulations and policies, we could lose contracts and the related revenue, thereby harming our financial results. State and federal regulatory agencies have broad discretionary powers over the administration and enforcement of laws and regulations that govern our operations. A material violation of a law or regulation could subject us to fines and penalties and in some circumstances could disqualify some or all of the facilities and programs under our control from future participation in Medicaid or other government programs. 20 Table of Contents The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”) and other federal and state data privacy and security laws govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of patient- identifiable health information. HIPAA and the HITECH Act require us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties, including, among other things, the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. Additionally, certain states have adopted comparable privacy and security laws and regulations, some of which may be more stringent than HIPAA. While we have taken steps to comply with applicable health information privacy and security requirements to which we are aware that we are subject to, if we do not comply with existing or new federal or state laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions and any resulting liability could adversely affect our operations. The costs of complying with privacy and security related legal and regulatory requirements are burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Expenses incurred under governmental agency contracts for any of our services, as well as management contracts with providers of record for such agencies, are subject to review by agencies administering the contracts and services. Representatives of those agencies visit our group homes to verify compliance with state and local regulations governing our home operations. A negative outcome from any of these examinations could increase government scrutiny, increase compliance costs or hinder our ability to obtain or retain contracts. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state statutes, prohibit the provision of kickbacks, rebates and any other form of remuneration in return for referrals. Any remuneration, direct or indirect, offered, paid, solicited or received, in return for referrals of patients or business for which payment may be made in whole or in part under Medicaid could be considered a violation of law. The Anti-Kickback Law also prohibits payments made to anyone to induce them to recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering any goods, facility, service or item for which payment may be made in whole or in part by Medicaid. Criminal penalties under the Anti-Kickback Law include fines up to $25,000, imprisonment for up to five years, or both. In addition, acts constituting a violation of the Anti-Kickback Law may also lead to civil penalties, such as fines, assessments, exclusion from participation in the Medicaid programs and liability under the False Claims Act. We are subject to many different and varied audit mechanisms for post-payment review of claims submitted under the Medicaid program. These include Recovery Audit Contractor (“RAC”) auditors, State Medicaid auditors, surveillance integrity review audits and Payment Error Rate Measurement (“PERM”) audits, among others. Any one of these audit activities may identify claims that the auditors deem problematic and, following such determination, auditors may require recoupment of claims by Medicaid to us. On March 17, 2014, a newly promulgated federal regulation governing home- and community-based services became effective. The rule establishes eligibility requirements for Medicaid home and community-based services provided under the “waiver” program. The waiver program allows the states to furnish an array of home- and community-based services and avoid institutional care. Under the new rule, home- and community-based settings must be integrated in and support full access to the greater community, be selected by the individual from different setting options, ensure individual rights of privacy, and optimize autonomy and independence in making life choices. The rule includes additional requirements for provider-owned or controlled home and community-based residential settings, including that the individual has a lease or other legally enforceable agreement, and standards related to the individual’s privacy, control over schedule and visitors, and physical accessibility of the setting. At this juncture it is unclear how individual states will seek to implement this newly adopted regulation. The rule presents some implementation challenges, as some of the broad requirements may conflict with the needs and/or precautions that we must take for some of the individuals that we serve. It is unclear how each state will seek to address this potential conflict, and the impact and costs of implementation and compliance with this regulation are currently unknown. States have the option to request a variation or delay of compliance with the federal standards for as long as five years from the effective date. Moreover, each state Medicaid agency may interpret and submit different requests and extension timelines. Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our homes, equipment, personnel, services, pricing or capital expenditure programs, which could increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for or profitability of our services. Should we be found out of compliance with these statutes, regulations and policies, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. 21 Table of Contents The high level of competition in our industry could adversely affect our contract and revenue base. We compete in a highly fragmented industry with a wide variety of competitors, ranging from small, local agencies to a few large, national organizations. Competitive factors may favor other providers and reduce our ability to obtain contracts, which would hinder our growth. Not-for-profit organizations are active in all states and range from small agencies, serving a limited area with specific programs to multi-state organizations. Smaller local organizations may have a better understanding of the local conditions and may be better able to gain political and public acceptance. Not-for-profit providers may be affiliated with advocacy groups, health organizations or religious organizations that have substantial influence with legislators and government agencies. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payors, any of which could harm our business. Home and community-based human services may become less popular among our targeted client populations and/or state and local governments, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth depends on the continuation of trends in our industry toward providing services to individuals in smaller, community-based settings and increasing the percentage of individuals served by non-governmental providers. For example, during the course of much of the last decade, state governments increasingly adopted policies that emphasized greater family preservation and family reunification for at-risk youth, which reduced the demand for foster care services and required that we adapt our service offerings. The ARY market in several states continues to be volatile and challenging, which could result in additional restructuring of our operations and/or contracts. Shifts in public policy and, therefore, our future success, are subject to a variety of political, economic, social and legal pressures, all of which are beyond our control. A reversal in the downsizing and privatization trends could reduce the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We conduct a significant percentage of our operations in Minnesota and, as a result, we are particularly susceptible to any reduction in budget appropriations for our services or any other adverse developments in that state. For each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, 14% of our net revenue was derived from contracts with government agencies in the State of Minnesota. Accordingly, any reduction in Minnesota’s budgetary appropriations for our services, whether as a result of fiscal constraints due to recession, changes in policy or otherwise, could result in a reduction in our fees and possibly the loss of contracts. For example, our I/DD services in Minnesota were negatively impacted in 2009 and 2011 by rate cuts of 2.6% and 1.5%, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will not receive additional rate reductions this year or in the future. The concentration of our operations in Minnesota also makes us particularly susceptible to many of the other risks described above occurring in this state, including: • the failure to maintain and renew our licenses; • the failure to maintain important relationships with officials of government agencies; and • any negative publicity regarding our operations. Any of these adverse developments occurring in Minnesota could result in a reduction in revenue or a loss of contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Covenants in our debt agreements impose several restrictions on our business. The senior credit agreement and the indenture governing the senior notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens on certain assets to secure debt; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. 22 Table of Contents The senior credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities also requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio, which began in the quarter ended June 30, 2014, in the event that we draw greater than 30% of the revolving commitment under our senior revolver. Our ability to meet this financial ratio could be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or financial ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We depend upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management team, without whom our business operations could be significantly disrupted. Our success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of our senior officers and other key employees. Our management team has significant industry experience and a long history with us, and would be difficult to replace. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the service of one or more of our key employees, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Our success depends on our ability to manage and integrate key administrative functions. Our operations and administrative functions are largely decentralized and subject to disparate accounting and billing requirements established and often modified by our local payors and referral sources. Although in recent years we have undertaken an effort to consolidate accounting, billing, cash collections and other financial and administrative functions which may have mitigated this risk to some degree, there remains a substantial portion of the business that has not yet been centralized and some risk in the centralization process itself. If we encounter difficulties in integrating our operations further or fail to effectively manage these functions to ensure compliance with disparate and evolving requirements imposed by our payors and referral sources, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our information systems are critical to our business and a failure of those systems, or a failure to upgrade them when required, could materially harm us. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information, and to provide our operations with efficient and effective accounting, census, incident reporting and other quality assurance systems. Our information systems require maintenance and upgrading to meet our needs, which could significantly increase our administrative expenses. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our critical systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. Furthermore, a loss of health care information could result in potential penalties in certain of our businesses if we fail to comply with privacy and security standards in violation of HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH Act. The performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. Our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: • accounting and financial reporting; • billing and collecting accounts; • coding and compliance; • clinical systems, including census and incident reporting; • records and document storage; and • monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality and compliance measures. In addition, as we continue to upgrade our systems, we run the risk of ongoing disruptions while we transition from legacy, and often paper-based, systems. Disruptions in our systems could result in delays and difficulties in billing, which could negatively affect our results from operations and cash flows. We may choose systems that ultimately fail to meet our needs, or that cost more to implement and maintain than we had anticipated. Such systems may become obsolete sooner than expected, our payors may require us to invest in other systems, and state and/or federal regulations may impose electronic records standards that we cannot easily address from our existing platform. If we fail to upgrade successfully and cost-effectively, or if we are forced to invest in new or incompatible technology, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may suffer. 23 Table of Contents We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in order to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including consumer records, financial transactions and maintenance of records. These processes may include sensitive financial information, personally identifiable information of clients and employees, and personal health information protected by HIPPA. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not securely maintain our business processes and information systems or maintain the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, it is impossible to prevent all security breaches. Failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write off goodwill or other intangible assets. A large portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, accounted for 48.5% and 56.0% of the total assets on our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We may not realize the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets and we expect to engage in additional transactions that will result in our recognition of additional goodwill or other intangible assets. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and is therefore impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of our goodwill or the unamortized portion of our intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. We may be more susceptible to the effects of a natural disaster or public health catastrophe, compared with other businesses due to the vulnerable nature of our client population. Our primary clients are individuals with developmental disabilities, brain injuries, or emotionally, behaviorally and/or medically complex challenges, many of whom would be more vulnerable than the general public in a natural disaster or public health catastrophe. In a natural disaster, we could be forced to relocate some of our clients on short notice under dangerous conditions and our new program starts and acquisitions could experience delays. Accordingly, natural disasters and certain public health catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The market price for our common stock is likely to be volatile, in part because our shares had not been traded publicly prior to the completion of our IPO. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including the following: • changes in estimates and views by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet estimates or failure of those analysts to maintain coverage of our common stock; • downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole and, in particular, in the healthcare environment; • investors’ perceptions of our prospects; • announcements by us of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • changes in key personnel. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies, including companies in the healthcare industry. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs, and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Our equity sponsor has the ability to control significant corporate activities and our majority stockholder’s interests may not coincide with yours. NMH Investment owns approximately 68% of our common stock. Vestar controls the decisions of NMH Investment with respect to the voting and disposition of our shares held by NMH Investment. As a result, so long as NMH Investment holds a majority of our outstanding shares, Vestar will have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and, through our Board of Directors, the ability to control decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies. In addition, under the director nominating agreement, NMH Investment has the right to nominate directors for election to our Board of Directors, and we will agree to support those nominees. Under certain circumstances, those nominees could constitute a majority of our Board of Directors even though NMH Investment at the time owns less than a majority of our common stock, giving Vestar decision-making control over us. Matters over which Vestar may, directly or indirectly, exercise control include: • the election of our Board of Directors and the appointment and removal of our officers; • mergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares; • other material acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; • incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities; • repurchase of stock and payment of dividends; and • the issuance of shares to management under our equity incentive plans. Even if Vestar’s ownership of our shares falls below a majority, Vestar may continue to be able to influence or effectively control our decisions. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Vestar and its affiliates will not have any obligation to present to us, and Vestar may separately pursue, corporate opportunities of which they become aware, even if those opportunities are ones that we would have pursued if granted the opportunity. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. We have 36,950,000 shares of common stock outstanding. The shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for any shares of our common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which are restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with acquisitions or investments. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or investment could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. As a company with publicly traded equity, we are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that will impose obligations and costs on us and may divert management’s attention from our business. As a result of our initial public offering, we became subject to a number of reporting and corporate governance requirements to which our subsidiary, NMHI was not previously subject, including the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and certain additional provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which have imposed and will continue to impose significant compliance obligations and costs upon us. Specifically, we are now required to: • prepare and distribute periodic reports and other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and New York Stock Exchange rules; • comply with rules relating to the composition, roles and duties of our Board of Directors and committees of our Board of Directors; 25 Table of Contents • provide an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting when we become an accelerated filer, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; • maintain an investor relations function; and • involve outside legal counsel and accountants in connection these and other related activities. As a company with publicly traded equity, we are required to commit significant resources and management time and attention to these requirements, which has caused us to incur significant costs and which may place a strain on our systems and resources. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns. Compliance with these requirements has placed significant demands on our legal, accounting and finance staff and on our accounting, financial and information systems and increased our legal and accounting compliance costs, and we may be required to hire additional accounting, tax, finance and legal staff to supplement our existing resources. As a result of our initial public offering, we have incurred and expect to incur certain additional annual expenses related to, among other things, additional directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements, transfer agent fees, investor relations advisory fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. Failure to comply with requirements to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404, to furnish an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will operate as intended. Management’s report is required to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Testing and maintaining internal controls may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not issue an unqualified opinion when they are required to do so beginning in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015. The generally decentralized nature of our operations and manual nature of many of our controls increases our risk of control deficiencies. In addition, future acquisitions may present challenges in implementing appropriate internal controls. Any future material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Moreover, any future disclosures of additional material weaknesses, or errors as a result of those weaknesses, could result in a negative reaction in the financial markets if there is a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. 26 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you are able to sell your common stock for a price greater than your purchase price. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including those under our senior secured credit facilities, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deem relevant. Accordingly, if you purchase shares, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The deterioration of income from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 