ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business We have consistently generated net losses since our inception and such losses may continue in the future. We have consistently generated net losses since our inception and such losses may continue in the future. These net losses primarily have been driven by significant depreciation, amortization, interest expense, and stock-based compensation. During Fiscal 2015, we had depreciation and amortization expense of $406.2 million, stock-based compensation expense of $200.7 million, and interest expense of $214.0 million. At June 30, 2015, we had $3,785.1 million of total debt (including capital lease obligations and before any unamortized discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs). We cannot assure you that we will generate net income in the future. Since our inception, we have used more cash than we have generated from operations, and we may continue to do so. Since our inception, we have consistently consumed our entire positive cash flow generated from operating activities with our investing activities. Our investing activities have consisted principally of the acquisition of businesses as well as material additions to property and equipment. We have funded the excess of cash used in investing activities over cash provided by operating activities with proceeds from equity contributions and equity and debt issuances. We intend to continue to invest in expanding our fiber network and our business and pursuing acquisitions that we believe provide an attractive return on our capital. These investments may continue to exceed the amount of cash flow available from operations after debt service requirements. To the extent that our investments exceed our cash flow from operations, we plan to rely on potential future debt or equity issuances, which could increase interest expense or dilute the interest of our stockholders, as well as cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to obtain or continue to have access to sufficient capital on reasonable terms, or at all, to successfully grow our business. 15 We are highly dependent on our management team and other key employees, many of whom own equity that was previously illiquid but became liquid as a result of our IPO. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team and other key employees. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, attract, develop, and retain qualified employees. None of the executive management team except for Mr. Caruso is bound by an employment agreement with us. If we lost members of our management team or other key employees, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. As announced on December 26, 2014, Dan Caruso, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company is undergoing treatment for prostate cancer. Mr. Caruso was diagnosed with and treated for prostate cancer in 2013 and recent tests have revealed that trace amounts of the cancer remain. Mr. Caruso is continuing to fulfill his responsibilities as the Company’s CEO and Chairman on a full-time basis with no interruption. At this time, no organizational changes related to Mr. Caruso’s cancer treatment are planned or anticipated. All of our officers and many of our key management and employees have had a significant portion of their compensation paid in equity. The liquidity provided by our IPO and subsequent equity offerings in many cases represents material wealth of our officers and key management employees that may impact retention and focus of existing key employees. Our revenue is relatively concentrated among a small number of customers, and the loss of any of these customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our largest single customer, based on recurring revenue, accounted for approximately 6% of our revenue during Fiscal 2015, and total revenues from our top ten customers accounted for approximately 27% of our revenue during Fiscal 2015. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Many of these customers are also competitors for some or all of our service offerings. Our customer contracts typically have terms of one to twenty years. Our customers may elect not to renew these contracts. Furthermore, our customer contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract. We may face increased competition and pricing pressure as our customer contracts become subject to renewal. Our customers may negotiate renewal of their contracts at lower rates, for fewer services or for shorter terms. Many of our customers are in the telecommunications industry, which is undergoing consolidation. To the extent that two or more of our customers combine, they may be able to use their greater size to negotiate lower prices from us and may purchase fewer services from us, especially if their networks overlap. If we are unable to successfully renew our customer contracts on commercially acceptable terms, or if our customer contracts are terminated, our business could suffer. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our key customers. If one or more of these customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable or incur impairment charges. We have numerous customer orders for connections, including contracts with multiple national wireless carriers to build out additional towers. If we are unable to satisfy new orders or build our network according to contractually specified deadlines, we may incur penalties or suffer the loss of revenue. Future acquisitions are a component of our strategic plan, and will include integration and other risks that could harm our business. We have grown rapidly and intend to continue to acquire complementary businesses and assets, and some of these acquisitions may be large or in new geographic areas where we do not currently operate. This exposes us to the risk that when we evaluate a potential acquisition target we over-estimate the target’s value and, as a result, pay too much for it. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully integrate acquired assets or the operations of the acquired entity with our existing operations. Businesses and assets that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. While we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with acquired properties and entities may exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 16 We have previously engaged in and may continue to engage in large acquisitions, such as the AboveNet and Latisys acquisitions, which could be much more difficult to integrate. Difficulties with integration could cause material customer disruption and dissatisfaction, which could in turn increase churn and reduce new sales. Additionally, we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses in a manner that permits us to realize the cost synergies we anticipate in the time, manner, or amount we currently expect, or at all. Our actual cost synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities, and efficiency and operational benefits resulting from any acquisition may be lower and may take longer to realize than we currently expect. In addition, some recently acquired companies have had Adjusted EBITDA margins that were lower than ours, which had a negative impact on our incremental margins. Future acquisitions may have a similar effect. We may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to assist in the funding of these potential transactions, which may increase our leverage and/or dilute the interest of our stockholders. Further, additional transactions could cause disruption of our ongoing business and divert management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the closing and integration of the acquired business. Acquisitions also involve other operational and financial risks such as: • increased demand on our existing employees and management related to the increase in the size of the business and the possible distraction from our existing business due to the acquisition; • loss of key employees and salespeople of the acquired business; • liabilities of the acquired business, both unknown and known at the time of the consummation of the acquisition; • discovery that the financial statements we relied on to buy a business were incorrect; • expenses associated with the integration of the operations of the acquired business; • the possibility of future impairment, write-downs of goodwill and other intangibles associated with the acquired business; • finding that the services and operations of the acquired business do not meet the level of quality of those of our existing services and operations; and • recognizing that the internal controls of the acquired business were inadequate. We are growing rapidly and may not maintain or efficiently manage our growth. We have rapidly grown our company through acquisitions of companies and assets as well as expansion of our own network and the acquisition of new customers through our own sales efforts. We also intend to continue to grow our company, including through acquisitions, some of which may be large. Customers can be reluctant to switch providers of bandwidth services because it can involve substantial expense and technical difficulty. That can make it harder for us to acquire new customers through our own sales efforts. Our expansion may place strains on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent upon our ability to: • expand, develop, and retain an effective sales force and other qualified personnel; • maintain the quality of our operations and our service offerings; • attract customers to switch from their current providers to us in spite of the costs associated with switching providers; • maintain and enhance our system of internal controls to ensure timely and accurate reporting; and • expand our operational information systems in order to support our growth, including integrating new customers without disruption. Service level agreements in our customer agreements could subject us to liability or the loss of revenue. Our contracts with customers typically contain service guarantees (including network availability) and service delivery date targets, which could enable customers to claim credits and, under certain conditions, terminate their agreements. Our inability to meet our service level guarantees could adversely affect our revenue. In Fiscal 2015, lost revenue from failure to meet service level guarantees was approximately $0.9 million. While we typically have carve-outs for force majeure events, many events, such as fiber cuts, equipment failure and third-party vendors being unable to meet their underlying commitments with us, could impact our ability to meet our service level agreements. 17 Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. The services we provide are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • power loss; • improper building maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our datacenters are located; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, and other natural disasters; • water damage; • the effect of war, terrorism, and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and • sabotage and vandalism. Problems within our network or our datacenters, whether within our control or the control of our landlords or other third-party providers, could result in service interruptions or equipment damage. As current and future customers increase their power usage in our facilities over time, the remaining available power for future customers could limit our ability to grow our business and increase occupancy rates or network density within our existing facilities. Accordingly, we may not be able to efficiently upgrade or change these systems to meet new demands without incurring significant costs that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. In the past, we have experienced disruptions in our network attributed to equipment failure and power outages. Although such disruptions have been remedied and the network has been stabilized, there can be no assurance that similar disruptions will not occur in the future. Given the service level agreement obligations we typically have in our customer contracts, such disruptions could result in customer credits; however, we cannot assume that our customers will accept these credits as compensation in the future, and we may face additional liability or loss of customers. We use franchises, licenses, permits, rights-of-way, conduit leases, fiber agreements, and property leases, which could be canceled or not renewed. We must maintain rights-of-way, franchises, and other permits from railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, and others to operate our owned fiber network. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining these rights-of-way agreements or obtaining future agreements on acceptable terms. Some of these agreements are short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If a material portion of these agreements are terminated or are not renewed, we might be forced to abandon our networks. In order to operate our networks, we must also maintain fiber leases and IRU agreements that we have with public and private entities. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew those fiber routes on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew those fiber routes on favorable terms, we may face increased costs or reduced revenues. In order to expand our network to new locations, we often need to obtain additional rights-of-way, franchises, and other permits. Our failure to obtain these rights in a prompt and cost-effective manner may prevent us from expanding our network, which may be necessary to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and could expose us to liabilities. If we lose or are unable to renew key real property leases where we have located our POPs, it could adversely affect our services and increase our costs, as we would be required to restructure our network and move our POPs. We are required to maintain, repair, upgrade, and replace our network and our facilities, the cost of which could materially impact our results and our failure to do so could irreparably harm our business. Our business requires that we maintain, repair, upgrade, and periodically replace our facilities and networks. This requires management time and capital expenditures. In the event that we fail to maintain, repair, upgrade, or replace essential portions of our network or facilities, it could lead to a material degradation in the level of service that we provide to our customers. Our networks can be damaged in a number of ways, including by other parties engaged in construction close to our network facilities. In the event of such damage, we will be required to incur expenses to repair the network. We could be subject to significant network repair and replacement expenses in the event a terrorist attack or a natural disaster damages our network. Further, the operation of our network requires the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software. Our failure to maintain or properly operate this can lead to degradations or interruptions in customer service. Our failure to provide proper customer service could result in claims from our customers, early termination of contracts, and damage our reputation. 18 Our debt level could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and business prospects and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. In the future, we may incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our leverage. As of June 30, 2015, our total debt (including capital lease obligations and before any unamortized discounts, premiums or debt issuance costs) was $3,785.1 million, primarily consisting of our subsidiary, Zayo Group, LLC’s (“ZGL”) $1,430.0 million of 6.00% senior unsecured notes due 2023 (the “2023 Unsecured Notes”), $325.6 million of 10.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (the “2020 Secured Notes”) and $350.0 million of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the “2025 Unsecured Notes”, collectively with the 2023 Unsecured Notes and the 2020 Secured Notes, the “Notes”), $1,646.8 million senior secured term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”) and $32.7 million in capital lease obligations. In addition, ZGL has a $450.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolver,” and collectively with the Term Loan Facility, the “Credit Facilities”), of which $440.8 million was available at June 30, 2015, subject to certain conditions. Subject to the limitations set forth in the indentures (the “Indentures”) governing the Notes and the agreement governing the Credit Facilities (the “Credit Agreement”), ZGL may incur additional indebtedness (including additional first lien obligations) in the future. If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face in light of our current debt level, including our possible inability to service our debt, could intensify. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate and other activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors; and • preventing us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase the Notes tendered to ZGL upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which would constitute a default under the Indentures. Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, which are reflected in our cash flows from operating activities, during the year ended June 30, 2015 was $191.2 million, and represented 32% of our cash flows from operating activities. Excluding our aggregate redemptions of $924.4 million of notes in December 2014 and March 2015 and Term Loan Facility repayment of $344.5 million in May 2015, we also made cash payments related to principal payments on our debt obligations (including capital leases) during the year ended June 30, 2015 of $23.1 million, which are reflected in our cash flows from financing activities, and represented 4% of our cash flows from operating activities during the period. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations. Our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business, regulatory, and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as economic and financial conditions in our industry and the U.S. or the global economy, or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • reducing or delaying capital investments; • raising additional capital; • refinancing or restructuring our debt; and • selling assets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that implementing any such alternative financing plans would allow us to meet our debt obligations. 19 If ZGL is unable to meet its debt service obligations, it would be in default under the terms of the Indentures and the Credit Agreement, permitting acceleration of the amounts due on the Notes and under the Credit Agreement and eliminating our ability to draw on the Revolver. If the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facilities, the Notes, or other future indebtedness were to be accelerated, we could be forced to file for bankruptcy. Our debt agreements contain restrictions on our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. The Indentures and the Credit Facilities each contain, and agreements governing future debt issuances may contain, covenants that restrict ZGL’s ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions with respect to any equity interests or make certain investments or other restricted payments; • create liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • incur restrictions on the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it; • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all, or substantially all, of its assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in business other than telecommunications; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we may conduct our business, and as a result we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. The ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement and the Indentures may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, ZGL’s ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios, or tests in the Credit Agreement, the Indentures, or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Credit Facilities, the Indentures or our future indebtedness, which if not cured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the Credit Facilities require ZGL to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios regarding total leverage and secured leverage. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. These restrictions limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs, or otherwise constrain our activities or business plans. They also may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, in any future credit agreement or the Indentures or ZGL’s inability to comply with the financial ratios could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable or to terminate the ability to borrow under the Revolver. If the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facilities, the Notes or other future indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed, including the Notes. In such a situation, we could be forced to file for bankruptcy. Our future tax liabilities are not predictable or controllable. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our financial condition and operations could be negatively impacted. We provide telecommunication and other services in multiple jurisdictions across the United States and Europe and are, therefore, subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes would be adverse to us. In addition, we may become subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. It is possible that certain tax positions taken by us could result in tax liabilities for us. While we believe that our current provisions for taxes are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot assure you that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that we will not identify additional exposures in the future. 20 We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use our net operating losses, or when they will be depleted. At June 30, 2015, we had approximately $1,145.2 million of federal net operating losses (“NOLs”), which relate primarily to prior acquisitions. Under certain circumstances, these NOLs can be used to offset our future federal and certain taxable income. If we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the NOLs, thus accelerating cash tax payments or causing NOLs to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of the NOLs. Furthermore, transactions that we enter into, as well as transactions by existing or future 5% stockholders that we do not participate in, could cause us to incur an “ownership change,” which could prevent us from fully utilizing our NOLs to reduce our federal income taxes. These limitations could cause us not to pursue otherwise favorable acquisitions and other transactions involving our capital stock, or could reduce the net benefits to be realized from any such transactions. Despite this, we expect to use substantially all of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes as an offset to our federal future taxable income, although the timing of that use will depend upon our future earnings and future tax circumstances. If and when our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect that the amount of our cash flow dedicated to the payment of federal taxes will increase substantially. We may be subject to interest rate risk and increasing interest rates may increase our interest expense. Borrowings under each of the Credit Facilities bear, and our future indebtedness may bear, interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. The international operations of our business expose us to risks that could materially and adversely affect the business. We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.; • foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. We may as part of our expansion strategy increase our exposure to international investments and operations. Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of the U.S. and many foreign countries, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could lead to enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. 21 The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. We have created and implemented a program for compliance with anti-bribery laws. Because our anti-bribery internal control policies and procedures have been recently implemented, we may have increased exposure to reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. Violations of these anti-bribery laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to currency risk. We conduct a portion of our business using the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. Appreciation of the U.S. Dollar adversely affects our consolidated revenue. For example, the U.S. Dollar has appreciated significantly against the Euro in recent periods. Since we tend to incur costs in the same currency in which those operations realize revenue, the effect on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. Dollar continues to appreciate significantly, future revenues, operating income and operating cash flows could be materially affected. We may be vulnerable to security breaches that could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and operations. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, distributed denial of service, and other security breaches. An attack on or security breach of our network could result in interruption or cessation of services, our inability to meet our service level commitments, and potentially compromise customer data transmitted over our network. We cannot guarantee that our security measures will not be circumvented, resulting in network failures or interruptions that could impact our network availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operational results. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against such threats. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose customers. Any such events could result in legal claims or penalties, disruption in operations, misappropriation of sensitive data, damage to our reputation, and/or costly response measures, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Industry We could face increased competition from companies in the telecommunications and media industries that currently do not focus on bandwidth infrastructure. Many of our competitors in the bandwidth infrastructure space are other focused bandwidth infrastructure providers that operate on a regional or local basis. In some cases we also compete with communications service providers who also own certain infrastructure assets and make them available to customers as an infrastructure service. These communication service providers include ILECs, such as AT&T and Verizon, and cable television companies, such as Comcast. Some of these competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing, and research and development resources than we do and are able to promote their brands with significantly larger budgets. Most of them are also our customers. If ILECs and cable television companies focus on providing bandwidth infrastructure, it could have a material adverse effect on us. A few of these competitors also have significant fiber assets that they principally employ in the provision of their communications services. If any of these competitors with greater resources and/or significant fiber assets chose to focus those resources on bandwidth infrastructure, our ability to compete in the bandwidth infrastructure industry could be negatively impacted. To the extent that communication service providers, cable television companies, and other media companies choose to distribute their content over their own networks that could reduce demand for our services. Additionally, significant new entrants into the bandwidth services industry would increase supply, which could cause prices for our services to decline. 22 Consolidation among companies in the telecommunications and cable television industries could further strengthen our competitors and adversely impact our business. The telecommunications and cable television industries are intensely competitive and continue to undergo significant consolidation. There are many reasons for consolidation in these industries, including the desire for communications and cable television companies to acquire network assets in regions where they currently have no or insufficient amounts of owned network infrastructure. The consolidation within the industry may cause customers to disconnect services to move them to their own networks, or consolidate buying with other bandwidth infrastructure providers. Additionally, consolidation in the industry could further strengthen our competitors, give them greater financial resources and geographic reach, and allow them to put additional pressure on prices for bandwidth infrastructure services. Certain of our services are subject to regulation that could change or otherwise impact us in an adverse manner. Communications services are subject to domestic and international regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. These regulations affect our business and our existing and potential competitors. Our electronic communications services and electronic communications networks in Europe and elsewhere are subject to regulatory oversight by national communications regulators, such as the United Kingdom’s Office of Communications (“Ofcom”) and France’s Autorité de Régulation des Communications Electroniques et des Postes (“ARCEP”). In addition, in the United States, both the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the state public utility commissions or similar regulatory authorities (the “State PUCs”) typically require us to file periodic reports, pay various regulatory fees and assessments, and to comply with their regulations. Such compliance can be costly and burdensome and may affect the way we conduct our business. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities or for interconnection agreements with other carriers), the enactment of new and adverse international or domestic legislation or regulations (including those pertaining to broadband initiatives and net-neutrality), or the denial, modification or termination by a regulator of any approval or authorization, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the current regulatory landscape is subject to change through judicial review of current legislation and rulemaking by the FCC, Ofcom, ARCEP, and other domestic, foreign, and international rulemaking bodies. These bodies regularly consider changes to their regulatory framework and fee obligations. Changes in current regulation may make it more difficult to obtain the approvals necessary to operate our business, significantly increase the regulatory fees to which we are subject, or have other adverse effects on our future operations in the United States and Europe. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. Although we believe our liability for third party information stored on or transmitted through our networks is limited, the liability of private network operators is limited both by changing technology and evolving legal principles. As a private network provider, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to third party content stored or transmitted on our networks. Such claims could involve, among others, allegations of defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright infringement, or aiding and abetting restricted activities such as online gambling or pornography. If we decide to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to these risks or if we are required to defend ourselves against these kinds of claims, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected. Unfavorable general global economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general global economic conditions could negatively affect our business. Although it is difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, our services, and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to purchase our services or make timely payments to us. The current economic conditions, including federal fiscal and monetary policy actions, may lead to inflationary conditions in our cost base, particularly in our lease and personnel related expenses. This could harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or reduce costs sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. For these reasons, among others, if challenging economic conditions persist or worsen, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all. Disruptions in the financial markets could impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing, or lines of credit, in the future as well as impact our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms or at all, which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations. 23 Changes in our traffic patterns or industry practice could result in increasing peering costs for our IP network. Peering agreements with other ISPs have allowed us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. In most cases, we peer with these ISPs on a payment-free basis, referred to as settlement-free peering. We plan to continue to leverage this settlement-free peering. If other providers change the terms upon which they allow settlement-free peering or if changes in Internet traffic patterns, including the ratio of inbound to outbound traffic, cause us to fall below the criteria that these providers use in allowing settlement-free peering, the costs of operating our Internet backbone will likely increase. Any increases in costs could have an adverse effect on our margins and our ability to compete in the IP market. Terrorism and natural disasters could adversely impact our business. The ongoing threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on business, financial and general economic conditions. Effects from these events and any future terrorist activity, including cyber terrorism, may, in turn, increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorist activity could damage or destroy our Internet infrastructure and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, raise capital, and operate and maintain our network access points. We are particularly vulnerable to acts of terrorism because of our large datacenter presence in New York. We are also susceptible to other catastrophic events such as major natural disasters, extreme weather, fires, or similar events that could affect our headquarters, other offices, our network, infrastructure, or equipment, all of which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors described herein, these factors include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other companies in our industry; • the addition or loss of significant customers; • fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock or the size of our public float; • announcements by us with regard to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our ability to accurately report our financial results; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; • general economic, legal, regulatory and market conditions unrelated to our performance; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. The stock markets have experienced extreme fluctuations in price and trading volume that have caused and will likely continue to cause the stock prices of many telecommunications companies to fluctuate in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of declining stock prices. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could face substantial costs and be forced to divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could adversely affect our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Certain securities and industry analysts currently publish research reports with respect to our common stock and certain of our debt securities. If they fail to publish reports about us or our securities regularly, or otherwise cease to cover our Company, demand for our stock could decrease and the trading price of our stock could decline. A downgrade of our stock or the publication of inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business would likely cause our stock price to decline. 24 Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or if there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. We have a relatively small public float relative to the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, and a substantial majority of our issued and outstanding shares are restricted as a result of securities laws, the Stockholders Agreement, or other contractual provisions that restrict transfers. There are outstanding 243,008,679 shares of our common stock. Shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and various vesting agreements in some cases. Holders of approximately 176.8 million shares of our common stock are parties to a Stockholders Agreement among the Company and certain stockholders named therein (the “Stockholders Agreement”) that limits their ability to transfer their shares until after October 22, 2015, other than to affiliates, pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement entered into in connection with the consummation of our IPO or for bona fide hedging purposes. The Stockholders Agreement provides, however, that approximately 21.1 million of the shares held by parties to the agreement will be released from the restrictions thereunder in certain circumstances. The holders of an aggregate of approximately 176.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. Once any such registration statement is filed and effective, the shares registered therein will be able to be sold freely in the public market upon issuance, subject to existing market standoff or lock-up agreements. In addition, there are 14 million shares reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plan, and we could also make equity compensation grants outside of our stock incentive plan. The shares issuable under our stock incentive plan have been registered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8. We may issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in ownership dilution to you as a stockholder, and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that our stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • our board of directors has the right to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; • our directors are not elected by cumulative voting, which would allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting is required; • our board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, certain rights of which could be senior to those of our common stock; • stockholders do not have the right to call a special meeting of stockholders or to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • approval of at least two-thirds of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote thereon is required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, our amended and restated bylaws or the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding, among other items, the election and removal of directors; and • directors may be removed from office only for cause. 25 We have elected not to be governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”); however, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes similar provisions providing that we may not engage in certain “business combinations” with any “interested stockholder” for three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes, among other things, a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or did own, within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the term “interested stockholder” does not include the entities that are current preferred equity holders of CII, which entities are listed in our certificate of incorporation (the “Exempt Stockholders”), each of their respective affiliates, and any of their respective direct or indirect transferees and any group as to which such persons are a party. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders (with the exception of the Exempt Stockholders described above), particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and the DGCL could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and could potentially result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it otherwise would be. In addition, our debt agreements may require very significant payments if we have a change of control, which reduces the possibility that such an event will occur. Our directors, executive officers, holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, continue to have substantial control over the company. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 70.4% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2015. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. ZGL’s ability to pay dividends to us is limited by the Credit Agreement and Indentures, which may in turn limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends may also be restricted by the terms of any future credit agreement or any future debt or preferred securities of ours or of our subsidiaries. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company. Following our IPO, we are now subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the NYSE. Being subject to these rules and regulations results in legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and can also place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. If we do not timely satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could, among other things, cause investors to lose confidence in, or otherwise be unable to rely on, the accuracy of our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 26 We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. We are in the process of designing, implementing, and testing our internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation, which is a time-consuming, costly, and complicated process. We will be required to include the attestation of our independent public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting, beginning with the annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 