D: Risk Factors" of this annual report. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management's attention and resources could be diverted. 40 Table of Contents If equity research analysts do not continue to publish research reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares is affected by any research or reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us and our business. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and may be different from our estimates or expectations. If our results of operations are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. Moreover, the price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We are principally owned by our Founding Shareholders, and their interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a shareholder. Our Founding Shareholders own a significant amount of our equity and their interests may not always be aligned with yours. As of March 16, 2015, our Founding Shareholders own 93.4% of our ordinary shares and 100% of our special voting depository receipts for our special voting shares, representing 96.6% of the voting power of all of our ordinary shares and special voting shares voting together as a single class. So long as our Founding Shareholders continue to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our voting power, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our business decisions. Our Founding Shareholders may have interests that are different from yours and they may exercise their voting and other rights in a manner that may be adverse to your interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. Our Founding Shareholders may from time to time in the future acquire or develop controlling interests in businesses engaged in our industry that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. In addition, our Founding Shareholders may pursue acquisitions or opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Pursuant to our Articles of Association, our special voting shares concentrate voting control with our Founding Shareholders, and limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Upon completion of our initial public offering, the Voting Depository received one special voting share for each ordinary share held, directly or indirectly, by our Founding Shareholders and our Founding Shareholders each received directly or indirectly from the Voting Depository one special voting depository receipt, each stapled to every ordinary share received in, or prior to, the Reorganization. As a result, our Founding Shareholders each have, directly or indirectly, two votes per ordinary share received in, or prior to, the Reorganization. In the event of a capital increase of our company in which one or more of the Founding Shareholders or their Permitted Transferees (as defined in the section "ITEM 7.B: Related Party Transactions"), as the case may be, participate, they may elect to receive one additional special voting depository receipt stapled to every ordinary share acquired by them in connection with the capital increase. See "ITEM 7.B: Related Party Transactions—Agreements Relating to Our Shares—Special Voting Agreement." As of March 16, 2015, our Founding Shareholders hold 100% of our special voting depository receipts, and in the aggregate control approximately 96.6% of the voting power of our ordinary shares and special voting shares voting together as a single class. Therefore, our Founding Shareholders have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company and materially all matters requiring 41 Table of Contents shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or its assets. Furthermore, as of March 16, 2015, Jean-Charles Naouri, our chairman, controls and may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 93.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares, 100% of our special voting shares and 96.8% of our total voting power. See "ITEM 7.A: Major Shareholders" elsewhere in this annual report. Accordingly, Mr. Naouri is, and will be, able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors. In addition, Mr. Naouri may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Mr. Naouri's indirect control interest in us may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us, which may adversely affect the market price of our shares. In addition, our Founding Shareholders collectively will continue to be able to control nearly all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even if their ordinary share holdings represent less than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares. Because of these additional voting rights, our Founding Shareholders collectively may continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding share capital even when the ordinary shares held by them represent as little as 35% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future and, as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. Future transfers of ordinary shares by our Founding Shareholders, other than to Permitted Transferees, will generally result in the special voting depository shares being cancelled and the underlying special voting shares being transferred to our company for no consideration, which will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those of our Founding Shareholders who retain their ordinary shares and stapled special voting depository receipts in the long term. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our Founding Shareholders control a majority of our outstanding share capital. As of March 16, 2015, our Founding Shareholders beneficially own 93.4% of our ordinary shares and 100% of our special voting depository receipts for our special voting shares, representing 96.6% of the voting power of all of our ordinary shares and special voting shares voting together as a single class. Under the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group, or another company is a "controlled company," and such a company may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including (i) the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (ii) the requirement that nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors and (iii) the requirement that we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors. We currently rely on these and other exemptions described in detail under "ITEM 16G: Corporate Governance." Accordingly, our board of directors and applicable committees include fewer independent members than would be required if we were subject to all NASDAQ rules. As such, their approach may be different from that of a board with a majority of independent directors or a committee with only independent directors and, as a result, our management oversight may be more limited than if we were subject to all NASDAQ rules. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted, and intend, to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements. As a "foreign private issuer," as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the U.S. Securities Act, we are permitted to, and do, follow our home country practice in lieu of certain corporate governance 42 Table of Contents requirements of NASDAQ, including that (i) a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; (ii) we have a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors; (iii) we have a compensation committee and that such committee be composed entirely of independent directors; (iv) we have an audit committee that consists of at least three directors; (v) we have certain quorum requirements for meetings of shareholders; (vi) we obtain shareholder approval for certain issuances of securities, including those that would result in a change of control; and (vii) we provide certain proxy materials in connection with meetings of shareholders. We currently follow home country practice in the Netherlands with regard to exemptions (i) through (vi) above. Although Dutch law does not have a regulatory regime for the solicitation of proxies, shareholders are entitled to give proxies and voting instructions to us and/or third parties in connection with our annual or extraordinary general meetings of shareholders. See "ITEM 16G: Corporate Governance." We may in the future elect to follow home country practices in the Netherlands with regard to other matters. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the NASDAQ may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the NASDAQ rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. Furthermore, as the Dutch Corporate Governance Code ("DCGC") is largely based on a "comply or explain" principle, we could opt out of both U.S. and most Dutch corporate governance provisions under the DCGC. In addition, certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements from which foreign private issuers are exempt are also not reflected in Dutch law, such as the requirement to obtain shareholder approval in connection with a transaction other than a public offering involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance of ordinary shares at a price less than market value if greater than 20% of our pre-transaction issued and outstanding shares are sold, or are subject to different approval requirements, such as in connection with the establishment or amendment of equity compensation plans. Accordingly, so long as we qualify as a foreign private issuer, our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to these NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the provisions of Regulation FD or U.S. proxy rules and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules and regulations of the U.S. securities law. We are exempt from rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, and we are generally exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which prohibits the selective disclosure of material nonpublic information to, among others, broker-dealers and holders of a company's securities under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that the holder will trade in the company's securities on the basis of the information. Even though we intend to comply voluntarily with Regulation FD, these exemptions and leniencies will reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you are entitled as an investor. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if (a) a majority of our outstanding voting securities were either directly or indirectly owned of record by residents of the United States and (b)(i) a majority of our executive officers or directors were United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50 percent of our assets were located in the United States or (iii) our business was administered principally outside the United States. Our loss of foreign private issuer status would make U.S. regulatory provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws 43 Table of Contents as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would also be required to follow U.S. proxy disclosure requirements, including the requirement to disclose more detailed information about the compensation of our senior executive officers on an individual basis. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with accepted governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we would lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. Certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with our Parent Companies. Certain officers of our Parent Companies serve on our board of directors while retaining their positions with our Parent Companies. See "ITEM 6.A: Directors and Senior Management." On occasion, the interests of the Parent Companies, to which those officers owe fiduciary duties, may conflict with the interests of our company and you as a shareholder. Such officers may have to choose between the two and, as a result, may make decisions that conflict with your and our best interests in favor of the interests of the Parent Companies. In addition, some of these directors own Parent Company common stock, options to purchase Parent Company common stock or other Parent Company equity awards. These individuals' holdings of Parent Company common stock, options to purchase common stock of Parent Company or other equity awards may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons' total assets. Their position at the Parent Companies and the ownership of any Parent Company equity awards may, on a case by case basis, create the appearance of conflicts of interest. We are currently party to, and may in the future be party to, related party transactions, including with our Parent Companies. Such transactions could give rise to potential conflicts of interest. We have entered into, and from time to time in the future we may enter into, transactions with affiliated companies, including our Parent Companies. Our Parent Companies, including our Founding Shareholders, control a majority of our outstanding share capital and certain officers of our Parent Companies serve on our board of directors and retain their positions with our Parent Companies. Our board of directors has adopted a written policy regarding the review and approval of related party transactions, which came into effect on the date the registration statement for our initial public offering was declared effective and which requires that all related party transactions be entered into on arm's-length terms and, together with our other governance documents,also provides for the management of conflicts of interest. See "ITEM 7.B: Related Party Transactions—Review and Approval of Related Party Transactions." However, related party transactions between us and our Parent Companies or other related parties entered into prior to the completion of our initial public offering may present conflicts of interest between our management and our Parent Companies or such related parties. In addition, the agreements we have entered into with our Parent Companies in connection with the Reorganization were negotiated in the context of the Reorganization, prior to which we have been a wholly-owned subsidiary of Casino and our businesses have been controlled by Casino and its affiliates. Furthermore, our policies for the review and approval of related party transactions were not yet in place during the period in which the terms of those agreements were negotiated. The agreements negotiated in connection with the Reorganization relate to, among other things, the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and other obligations between each of our Parent Companies and us. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties. See "ITEM 7.B: Related Party Transactions" included elsewhere in this annual report. 44 Table of Contents The market price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. As of March 16, 2015, there are 441,297,846 of our ordinary shares outstanding. Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of our equity securities. Of our issued and outstanding shares, all the ordinary shares sold in our initial public offering are freely transferable, except for any ordinary shares acquired by our "affiliates," as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 93.4% of our ordinary shares are considered restricted stock and will be held by our affiliates. Such securities can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including volume limitations, manner of sale requirements and notice requirements. In connection with our initial public offering, we, our directors, executive officers and all holders of our outstanding shares and share options agreed with the underwriters of our initial public offering (named in "ITEM 14: Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds") that, subject to limited exceptions, for a period of 180 days after November 19, 2014, we and they would not directly or indirectly offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, grant any option to purchase or otherwise dispose of any ordinary shares or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for ordinary shares, or in any manner transfer all or a portion of the economic consequences associated with the ownership of ordinary shares, or cause a registration statement covering any ordinary shares to be filed (except for the ordinary shares offered in our initial public offering), without the prior written consent of the designated representatives of the underwriters, who may, in their sole discretion and at any time without notice, release all or any portion of the ordinary shares subject to these lock-up agreements. Not including any additional shares we may offer from time to time, on May 19, 2015, approximately 414,614,952 shares will become available for sale, which are expected to be subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales by the parties to this lock-up agreement of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. Following our initial public offering, Casino, Almacenes Éxito S.A. and Dutch HoldCo also entered into an agreement with us on November 25, 2014 that permits them to require us to register our ordinary shares owned by them under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets. See "ITEM 7.B: Related Party Transactions—Registration Rights." Sales by these shareholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. We also granted approximately 1,320,000 deferred stock units to certain executives of Cnova under our Omnibus Incentive Plan on November 19, 2014. We will not issue any of our ordinary shares to the recipients of the deferred stock units until the fourth anniversary of the completion our initial public offering, at which time, pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act, such ordinary shares will be available for sale in the public market except for ordinary shares held by affiliates who will have certain restrictions on their ability to sell. We have no present plan to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares and cannot provide assurances regarding the amount or timing of dividend payments, if any, in the future. We currently intend to reinvest all future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and expansion of our business. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made at the discretion 45 Table of Contents of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including future earnings, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, financial condition, future prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Payment of future dividends may be made only to the extent our shareholders' equity exceeds the sum of our paid-up and called-up share capital plus the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our Articles of Association. We cannot provide assurances regarding the amount or timing of dividend payments and may decide not to pay dividends in the future. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our ordinary shares to provide dividend income and the success of an investment in our ordinary shares may depend upon an appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders have purchased their ordinary shares. We maintain two exchange listings, which may adversely affect liquidity in the market for our ordinary shares and result in pricing differentials of ordinary shares between the two exchanges. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ and Euronext Paris. The listing of ordinary shares on both the NASDAQ and Euronext Paris may adversely affect the liquidity of the shares in one or both markets and we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our ordinary shares will lead to an active trading market on NASDAQ, Euronext Paris or otherwise, or how liquid those markets may be. In addition, the time difference between New York and Paris and differences in the trading schedules of NASDAQ and Euronext Paris, volatility in the exchange rate of the two trading currencies and other factors may result in different trading prices for ordinary shares on the two exchanges. Risks Related to Our Incorporation in the Netherlands We do not comply with all the provisions of the DCGC. This may affect your rights as a shareholder. As a Dutch company, we are subject to the DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for management boards, supervisory boards, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including NASDAQ. The principles and best practice provisions apply to the board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independence requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and obligations of the Company to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). We do not comply with all the provisions of the DCGC. See "ITEM 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association—Dutch Corporate Governance Code." This may affect your rights as a shareholder and you may not have the same level of protection as a shareholder in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC. United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and conduct the substantial majority of our operations in France and Brazil through our subsidiaries. Service of process upon us and upon our directors and officers named in this annual report, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. 46 Table of Contents The United States and the Netherlands currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. In this regard, it should be noted that the Hague Convention of June 30, 2005 on Court Choice Agreements, to which both the U.S. as well as the European Union are signatories, has not yet entered into force. Consequently, based on the current state of the law, a final judgment for payment given by a court in the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon U.S. securities laws, would not automatically be recognized or enforceable in the Netherlands. In order to obtain a judgment which is enforceable in the Netherlands, the party in whose favor a final and conclusive judgment of the U.S. court has been rendered will be required to file its claim with a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands. Such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment rendered by the U.S. court. The basic premise is that a judgment of a U.S. court will in principle be acknowledged in the Netherlands if (i) the jurisdiction of the U.S. court is based on a ground of jurisdiction that is generally acceptable according to international standards, (ii) the judgment by the U.S. court was rendered in legal proceedings that comply with the standards of the proper administration of justice that includes sufficient safeguards, (iii) acknowledgement of the judgment of the U.S. court is not contrary to Dutch public order, and (iv) the judgment by the U.S. court is not incompatible with a decision rendered between the same parties by a Dutch court, or with a previous decision rendered between the same parties by a foreign court in a dispute that concerns the same subject and is based on the same cause, provide that previous decision qualified for acknowledgement in the Netherlands. Moreover, even if a judgment by a U.S. court satisfies the above requirements, the Dutch court may still deny a claim for a judgment if such U.S. court judgment is not, not yet or no longer formally enforceable according to the relevant U.S. State- and Federal laws. The basis for unenforceability of the foreign decision is relevant in this connection. In this regard, a distinction should be made between the question whether a decision is formally enforceable and the question whether the decision can no longer be enforced as a result of payment of the debt or for another reason. In addition, Dutch courts may deny the recognition and enforcement of punitive damages or other similar awards. Moreover, a Dutch court may reduce the amount of damages granted by a U.S. court and recognize damages only to the extent that they are necessary to compensate actual losses or damages. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, our officers or directors or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such directors or experts, respectively. There is no treaty on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of liabilities (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters between the United States and France or between the United States and Brazil. As a result, in order to enforce a judgment rendered by a U.S. court in France or Brazil, claimants must obtain leave to enforce the judgment from a French or Brazilian court of competent jurisdiction, as applicable. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our board of directors, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap) organized under Dutch law. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of 47 Table of Contents directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company and our business, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. See "ITEM 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association—Dutch Corporate Governance Code" and "ITEM 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association—Differences in Corporate Law." Although the general meeting of the shareholders generally has the right to approve legal mergers or demergers, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company's shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a legal merger or demerger of a company (except in a limited number of situations). In addition, if a third party is liable to a Dutch company, under Dutch law shareholders generally do not have the right to bring an action on behalf of the company or to bring an action on their own behalf to recover damages sustained as a result of a decrease in value, or loss of an increase in value, of their stock. Only in the event that the cause of liability of such third party to the company also constitutes a tortious act directly against such shareholder and the damages sustained are permanent, may that shareholder have an individual right of action against such third party on its own behalf to recover damages. The Dutch Civil Code provides for the possibility for a foundation or an association whose objective, as stated in its articles of association, is to protect the rights of persons having similar interests, to institute litigation. Such litigation cannot result in an order for payment of monetary damages but may result in a declaratory judgment (verklaring voor recht), for example, declaring that a party has acted wrongfully or has breached a fiduciary duty. The foundation or association and the defendant are permitted to reach (often on the basis of such declaratory judgment) a settlement which provides for monetary compensation for damages. A designated Dutch court may declare the settlement agreement binding upon all the injured parties with an opt-out choice for an individual injured party. An individual injured party, within the period set by the court, may also individually institute a civil claim for damages if such injured party is not bound by a collective agreement. Certain provisions of Dutch corporate law and our Articles of Association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of the board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. Any shareholder acquiring 30% or more of our voting rights may be required to make a mandatory takeover bid. Under Dutch law, if a party directly or indirectly, whether or not in concert with others, acquires predominant control of a Dutch company, all or part of whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market such as Euronext Paris, that party may be required to make a public offer for all other shares of the Dutch company. For this purpose, "predominant control" is defined as the ability to exercise at least 30% of the voting rights at a general meeting of shareholders. Controlling shareholders existing before admission to listing and trading on the regulated market concerned are generally exempt from this requirement, unless their controlling interest drops below 30% and then increases again to 30% or more and no other exemption applies. The mandatory bid rule can be enforced by court order. The purpose of this requirement is to protect the interests of minority shareholders. 48 Table of Contents 