D. Risk Factors. In addition, there are some statutory restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us (e.g., legislation on permitted dividend payments or currency transfers), although we believe that we have structured our treasury operations to minimize the impact of such statutory restrictions on our operations. We intend to use cash from operating activities, as well as cash balances, to finance our capital needs. Based on our current operating performance and liquidity, we believe that cash provided by our operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient to cover our Net Working Capital requirements, Capital Expenditures, interest payments and scheduled debt repayments in the next year. Net Working Capital (Non-IFRS Financial Measure) We define Net Working Capital as the total of inventories and current trade receivables, less trade payables. Net Working Capital is a non-IFRS financial measure, and other companies may use a similarly titled financial measure that is calculated differently from the way we calculate Net Working Capital. The following tables set forth the principal components of our Net Working Capital as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2015 2014 2013Inventories 105.1 125.3 123.2Trade receivables 172.1 199.5 197.6Trade payables (94.2) (105.1) (99.5) Net Working Capital 183.0 219.7 221.3Our Net Working Capital position can vary significantly from month to month, mainly due to fluctuations in oil prices and receipts of carbon black oil shipments. In general, increases in the cost of raw materials lead to an increase in our Net Working Capital requirements, as our inventories and trade receivables increase as a result of higher carbon black oil prices and related sales levels. These increases are partially offset by related increases in trade payables. Due to the quantity of carbon black oil that we typically keep in stock, such increases in Net Working Capital occur gradually over a period of two to three months. Conversely, decreases in the cost of raw materials lead to a decrease in our Net Working Capital requirements over the same period of time. Based on 2015 Net Working Capital requirements, we estimate that a $10 per barrel movement in the Brent crude oil price correlates to a movement in our Net Working Capital of approximately €19 to €20 million within about a two to three month period. In times of relatively stable oil prices, the effects on our Net Working Capital levels are less significant and Net Working Capital swings increase in an environment of high price volatility.Our Net Working Capital gradually declined from €219.7 million as of December 31, 2014 to €183.0 million as of December 31, 2015 primarily due to a further decline in oil-prices and due to a continued strong focus of our management on the optimization of Net Working Capital since the Acquisition, including our efforts to adjust inventory to the minimal required levels, shortening the time between production and shipment of product to customers, focusing on timely cash collections with respect to accounts receivable and extending payment terms with respect to accounts payable. If oil-prices recover to 2014 levels we may need considerable amounts to serve our Net Working Capital requirements.Capital Expenditures (Non-IFRS Financial Measure) We define Capital Expenditures as cash paid for the acquisition of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as shown in the consolidated financial statements. Our Capital Expenditures amounted to €77.2 million in 2013, €64.5 million in 2014 and €51.5 million in 2015. We plan to finance our Capital Expenditures with cash generated by our operating activities. While, prior to the Acquisition, Capital Expenditures mainly consisted of expenditures incurred in connection with the maintenance of our assets, we have increased our investment in expansion and rationalization projects to increase the efficiency of our production facilities for both the Specialty Carbon Black and Rubber Carbon Black segments. The main capital expansion project initiated following the Acquisition was the addition of a new rubber carbon black production line in South Korea driven by growing customer demand. This production line commenced operations in the summer of 2013. We estimate that our maintenance Capital Expenditure requirements will be approximately 54€20 million to €25 million per year. We currently do not have any material commitments to make Capital Expenditures, and do not plan to make Capital Expenditures, outside the ordinary course of our business. Capital Expenditures in 2015 amounted to €51.5 million and were mainly composed of mainly of preservation and overhaul projects.Capital Expenditures in 2014 amounted to €64.5 million and were mainly composed of preservation and overhaul projects of €40.3 million, rationalization projects of €12.3 million and €6.5 million for expansions. 46% of our capital expenditures were spent in the Americas, 39% in Europe and 15% in Asia. Capital Expenditures in 2013 amounted to €77.2 million and included €8.0 million invested in connection with the completion of the new production line in South Korea and smaller investments in various operating efficiency initiatives and “de-bottlenecking” projects that have been initiated to increase production in existing facilities. For example, we invested in the replacement of pre-heaters in our facilities to improve the efficiency of feedstock utilization. Further, we finalized the investment in the re-configuration of our new global SAP-systems of €5.4 million to improve our ability to control and manage our business. C.Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, Etc.See 