D. Risk Factors—Legal and Regulatory Risks—Regulations requiring a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.” In the U.S., comprehensive climate change legislation has not yet been adopted. After determining that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and certain other gases endanger public health and the environment in December 2009, the EPA has regulated GHG emissions under various provisions of the Clean Air Act. The EPA adopted rules that require reporting of GHG emissions by owners and operators of facilities in certain source categories or that exceed certain GHG emissions thresholds, and our facilities are subject to this rule. Further, EPA issued the GHG “Tailoring Rule” in May 2010, to address GHG permitting requirements pursuant to its determination that GHG emissions triggered permitting requirements for stationary sources starting in January 2011, and has since continued efforts to regulate GHG emissions. Apart from the EPA's efforts, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, but no legislation has been enacted to date. At the state level, approximately one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. There is no assurance that the current level of regulation will continue at the federal or state level in the future, or that future changes would not materially affect our operations or require material capital expenditures. The adoption of legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs, establish permitting thresholds based on GHG emissions or otherwise limit or impose compliance obligations for emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to obtain and comply with permits, reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or purchase carbon offsets or allowances. Effective January this year, South Korea commenced a GHG emissions trading scheme (the "South Korean ETS"), with the goal of achieving a 30% reduction in GHG emissions relative to the projected business-as-usual case by 2020, which is reported as approximating a 4% reduction against the 2005 level. Participation is mandatory for South Korean legal entities that emit over 125,000 tons of CO2 equivalent ("tCO2e") per annum and for workplaces that discharge over 25,000 tCO2e per annum. The South Korean ETS covers industries (including petrochemical sector), electric power producers, transportation sector, commercial properties, among others. Our South Korean operating entity is a mandatory participant in the new ETS, as our projected annual GHG emission is greater than 125,000 tCO2e. ETS participants’ aggregate GHG emissions are reported as covering more than 60% of South Korea’s annual GHG emissions.The design concept of the South Korean ETS is similar to the EU ETS. Each participant receives an allocation of allowed emissions. If the emissions exceed the allocated allowance, then the participant is required to offset such excess emissions through various legally authorized means, such as purchasing certified credits, applying authorized offset credits and borrowing (the use of proceeding year’s allocation). A failure to offset excessive emissions will result in a monetary penalty, equaling three times the market price for the carbon credit traded at the Korean Exchange. However, the maximum penalty is set at 100,000 Korean Won (approximately €75 applying an exchange rate of 1,324.80 Korean Won per EUR as of December 31, 2014). The South Korean government’s stated target price for carbon credit is around 10,000 Korean Won (approximately €7.50). Various tools are available to the government to stabilize carbon prices at around the stated target price, including the release of reserve credits held by the government, setting the maximum emissions credit that can be held by a participant (thus facilitating the sale of excess credits) and setting price ceilings and floors. Carbon credits in January, 2015 were reported as being priced below 10,000 Korean Won per tCO2e.The South Korean ETS will operate in three phases. Phase I covers 2015 through 2017, Phase II, 2018-20; and Phase III, 2021-26. The emissions allowance allocated to our South Korean operating entity in 2015 was set at 88% of the projected emissions when operating at full capacity. We have filed an appeal with South Korea’s Environment Ministry under Article 38 of the GHG Emissions Allowance and Trading Act to effectively seek an increase in the allowance. It is difficult to assess at this time our chances of success. The Environment Ministry’s decision is expected in the first quarter of 2015. If our appeal fails to lead to a higher allowance and we achieve full capacity utilization, our carbon deficit could be as much as 90,000 tCO2e in 2015. If the carbon market stabilizes at 10,000 Korean Won per tCO2e with sufficient credits for us to bridge the gap entirely by purchasing carbon credits, then the exposure would be 900 million Korean Won(approximately €0.7 million), or 4,400 Korean Won per kg of carbon blacks ("kg CB"). The allocation rate is expected to be reduced to 83.9% in 2016 and 82% in 2017, which will translate into a potential carbon deficit of 122,000 tCO2e in 2016 and 136,000 tCO2e in 2017. The potential financial impact at 10,000 Korean Won per tCO2e to acquire the required credits would be 1.2 billion Korean Won (approximately 33€0.9 million or 5,966 Korean Won per kg CB) in 2016 and 1.4 billion Korean Won (approximately €1.1 million or 6,649 per kg CB Korean Won) in 2017. The maximum exposure—in the unlikely event that we are unable to offset any of the projected GHG deficit and are charged with the maximum penalty of 100,000 Korean Won per tCO2e—is 9 billion Korean Won (approximately €6.8 million or 44,001 Korean Won per kg CB). We are taking steps to mitigate our exposure through various means, including improvements in the feedstock-to-carbon black conversion ratio, energy optimization to reduce the use of energy at our two sites and pricing the cost of GHG offsets in our offers to our customers. We are also considering taking bid positions in the Korean Exchange to acquire carbon credits at reasonable prices.There are also ongoing discussions and regulatory initiatives in other countries in which we have facilities, including Brazil , regarding GHG emission reduction programs, but those programs have not yet been defined. Water Quality Our plants are net consumers of water. Most of our plants recycle a substantial amount of the water used in the manufacturing process, which is used as “quench water” in the cooling process. Water discharge from most plants consists primarily of storm-water during and after heavy rain, as well as limited wastewater from ancillary operations such as boiler blowdown and equipment washing; these discharges only take place under permitted conditions. For those plants that discharge water, the treatment generally is a settling pond system. Some facilities operate more advanced wastewater treatment systems, such as filtration and aeration systems incorporating chlorination or ozonation, depending on local requirements. At the EU level, the European Directive No. 2000/60/EC, also known as the Water Framework Directive, aims to achieve a good qualitative and quantitative status of all water bodies by 2015. Its main goals include expanding the scope of water protection to all waters, including surface waters and groundwater, water management based on river basins, a “combined approach” of emission limit values and quality standards and streamlining legislation. Moreover, the use of water for the manufacturing process may require permits or licenses as, for example, under the German Federal Water Act or German local laws. Permits may also be required for the discharge of wastewater into the public sewer system. Such permit or license may be revoked without compensation under certain circumstances. In the United States, our facilities are subject to the federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and analogous state laws and regulations that impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. Any such discharge of pollutants must be in accordance with the terms of the permit issued by EPA or the analogous state agency. In addition, the CWA and implementing state laws and regulations require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. These permits generally have a term of five years. Our facilities are subject to CWA permitting requirements, and must obtain and comply with National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits, which establish standards for, and require monitoring of, our discharges. We are subject to categorical pretreatment standards for the Carbon Black Manufacturing Point Source category, which, among other requirements, prohibits discharges of process wastewater pollutants to navigable water. Contamination As we handle chemicals that could cause water or soil contamination, we may be subject to remediation obligations under national law. Additionally, third parties may be able to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. In particular, the German Federal Act on Soil Protection (Bundes-Bodenschutzgesetz) requires the prevention of soil contamination by taking adequate precautions. In case of discovery of any contamination or past pollution (Altlasten) the owner, the current controlling person of the property, the polluter, its universal successor (Gesamtrechtsnachfolger) or the previous owner (if such owner transferred title to the real property after March 1, 1999 and knew or should have known of the contamination or past pollution) may be held responsible for remediation measures. Responsibility may be placed on either or several of the persons even in the absence of any fault or negligence. The competent authorities may also take remediation measures themselves and require the responsible party to bear the costs of such remediation. If several parties are responsible, they are jointly or severally liable and each party has the legal claim to reimbursement against the other parties. Such reimbursement may be contractually modified or waived among the parties. In case of contamination of ground or surface water, the responsibility for remediation measures results from the Federal Act on Soil Protection in conjunction with the Federal Water Act and local water protection laws. In the United States, our facilities are subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and similar state laws. CERCLA establishes liability for parties, including current and former site owners and operators, generators, and transporters, in connection with releases of hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, we may be subject to liability without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the disposal or other activity. Our operations involve the storage, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances within the meaning of CERCLA. As a result, we may be jointly and severally liable under CERCLA for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have been 34released into the environment. Under CERCLA and similar state laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property and groundwater, conduct natural resource damage assessments and pay compensation and penalties. RCRA is the principal federal statute regulating the generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and other wastes. RCRA and state hazardous waste regulations impose detailed operating, inspection, training and response standards and requirements for permitting, closure, remediation, financial responsibility, record keeping and reporting. Our sites have areas currently and formerly used as landfills for wastes generated by our operations. These landfills may be subject to regulation under RCRA, and certain of our facilities have been investigated and remediated under RCRA. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for acts that were in compliance with applicable laws at the time we performed those acts. We could incur significant costs in connection with investigation and remediation activities or claims asserted at current or former facilities or third-party sites. Non-hazardous and Hazardous Waste In some jurisdictions in which we operate we are subject to provisions regarding waste management and the handling and storage of hazardous substances. Those provisions may require documentation on the disposal of waste or compliance with certain safety standards (for example, as set forth in Council Directive 96/82/EC on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, known as Seveso II Directive). The directive was implemented into German law by the 12th Ordinance under the German Emissions Control Act. We generate hazardous waste in the form of spent solvents at our plant labs. In addition, coal tar fractions, a common raw material at some plants, are considered hazardous waste if spilled or otherwise require disposal, as are certain refractories that contain hexavalent chromium, which are generated infrequently. Certain facilities have on-site landfills permitted for the current disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. Energy Surcharge The German Renewable Energies Act grants above-market payments to the producers of energy generated from renewable sources. To balance these payments, an energy surcharge is imposed on the consumers of energy. Certain exemptions regarding that surcharge are provided in the EEG, in particular for energy intensive industries and self-consumption of self-produced energy. The European Commission opened an in-depth investigation procedure in December 2013 to examine whether the reductions granted under the EEG comply with EU state aid rules. Currently, the European Commission and the German government are working out an agreement regarding future benefits in that respect. Accordingly, the German legislator is amending the national regulations and setting up a new regime regarding energy intensive industries. It is expected that the exemption from the energy surcharge regarding electricity generated for the Company’s own consumption will be grandfathered with respect to all facilities that have been in operation before August 1, 2014. Environmental Proceedings During 2008 and 2009, the EPA contacted all U.S. carbon black producers as part of an industry wide EPA initiative, requesting extensive and comprehensive information under Section 114 of the Clean Air Act, to determine, for each facility, that either: (i) the facility has been in compliance with the Clean Air Act; (ii) violations have occurred and enforcement litigation may be undertaken; or (iii) violations have occurred and a settlement of an enforcement case is appropriate. In response to information requests received by our U.S. facilities, we furnished information to the EPA on each of our U.S. facilities. Our Belpre (Ohio) facility was an initial subject of these investigations and received notices from the EPA in 2010 alleging violations of permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act. In October 2012, we received a corresponding NOV under Section 113(a) of the Clean Air Act alleging the failure to obtain PSD permits prior to making major modifications at several units of our Ivanhoe (Louisiana) facility and to include BACT in the Title V permit. In January 2013 we also received an NOV issued by the EPA for our facility in Borger (Texas) alleging the failure to obtain PSD and Title V permits reflecting BACT during the years 1996 to 2008, and a similar NOV by the EPA was issued for our U.S. facility in Orange (Texas) in February 2013.In November 2013, we began discussions with the EPA and the DOJ about a potential settlement to resolve the NOVs. These discussions are currently ongoing. Any settlement may involve the imposition of civil penalties, an obligation to perform certain environmental mitigation projects, and an obligation to install certain air emissions controls at one or more facilities. We received information from the EPA in November 2013 specifying certain target emission reduction levels, pollution controls and other terms the EPA demands in a settlement. The EPA revised such proposed specifications and terms in November 2014 in response to a settlement proposal presented by the Company. Going forward, further settlement proposals may be exchanged and further meetings with the EPA on these matters may occur. The EPA action could result in civil penalties, mitigation and significant capital expenditures in connection with air emissions at our U.S. facilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we and the EPA/DOJ fail to reach a settlement agreement, the EPA/DOJ could bring a lawsuit against us. Orion would have defenses to EPA/DOJ’s allegations. While we are currently unable to determine the amount of civil penalties, mitigation and capital expenditures resulting from a settlement with or an enforcement of claims by the EPA, we note that Cabot Corporation, one of our competitors, announced in November 2013 that it entered into a settlement with the EPA/DOJ that requires Cabot Corporation to pay a $975,000 civil penalty to the EPA and fund $450,000 in environmental mitigation projects. Cabot Corporation stated that it is also installing certain technology controls as part of the settlement that it estimates will require investments of approximately $85 million. Given that, among other things, Cabot Corporation operates fewer facilities in the U.S. than we do, the aggregate amount to be incurred by us in case of a settlement with or an enforcement of claims by the EPA/DOJ 35could be significantly higher which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of January 2015, none of our US other domestic competitors have announced settlements with the government. Our agreement with Evonik in connection with the Acquisition provides for a partial indemnity from Evonik against various exposures, including fines and costs arising in connection with Clean Air Act violations that occurred prior to July 29, 2011. The indemnity provides for a recovery from Evonik of a share of the costs (including fines), expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees, but excluding costs for maintenance and control in the ordinary course of business and any internal cost of monitoring the remedy), liabilities, damages and losses suffered and is subject to various contractual provisions including provisions set forth in the Share Purchase Agreement with Evonik, such as a de minimis clause, a basket, overall caps (which apply to all covered exposures and to all covered environmental exposures, in the aggregate), damage mitigation and cooperating requirements, as well as a statute of limitations provision. Due to the cost-sharing and cap provisions in Evonik’s indemnity, we expect that a substantial portion of the costs we would incur in this enforcement initiative could exceed the scope of the indemnity, perhaps in the tens of millions of Euro. In addition Evonik has signaled that it may likely defend itself against claims under the indemnity; while we intend to enforce our rights vigorously, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover as we expect or at all. See “Item 3. Key Information —D. Risk-Factors—Risks Related to Indebtedness, Currency Exposure and Other Financial Matters—Our agreements with Evonik in connection with the Acquisition require us to indemnify Evonik with respect to certain aspects of our business and require Evonik to indemnify us for certain retained liabilities. We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to enforce claims under these indemnities as we expect.” We also note that the installation of pollution control technologies at our U.S. plants in response to the EPA action would increase the ongoing operating costs of those plants. We may not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. The foregoing matters could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows for the particular period in which we incur the related costs or liabilities. While capital expenditures made in response to the EPA action would be capitalized and amortized over time, civil penalties and the funding costs associated with environmental mitigation projects would reduce our results of operations in the reporting periods in which the costs are incurred or provided for. Chemical Regulations Some jurisdictions we operate in have established regimes to regulate or control chemical products to ensure the safe manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals. In the European Union, the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation of Chemicals was signed in December 2006, came into effect on June 1, 2007 and requires chemical manufacturers and importers in the European Union to register all chemicals manufactured in, or imported into the European Union in quantities of more than one ton per annum. Registration has to be made at the European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”). The registration process requires capital and resource commitments to compile and file comprehensive chemical dossiers regarding the use and attributes of each chemical substance manufactured or imported by us and requires us to perform chemical safety assessments. Moreover, the import or manufacture of certain “highly hazardous chemicals” must be authorized by ECHA. Furthermore, REACh Regulation contains prohibition rules on bringing substances to the market that have been identified as substances of very high concern (“SVHC”). If necessary, raw materials or manufactured substance will be listed on the “candidate list” or on Annex XIV to the REACh Regulation which may mean a full ban or requirement for authorization to be granted by the European Commission in its discretion. Registration of certain chemicals with ECHA has been compulsory since June 1, 2008. For pre-registered substances, three registration deadlines are applicable, depending on the tonnage of the substance. Substances manufactured or imported into the EU exceeding 1000 mt/y and specific SVHC in lower volumes had to be registered before December 1, 2010. The second period regarding substances in quantities of 100 to 1000 mt/y ended on May 31, 2013. The last deadline for substances of more than 1 mt/y will be May 31, 2018. Further national provisions exist that apply to our business. For example, under German law, the Chemicals Act (Chemikaliengesetz) and related ordinances impose particular obligations on producers, processors, and handlers of chemical agents. We have to comply with safety obligations in this respect, particularly regarding the handling and storage of hazardous substances. In the United States, we are subject to federal and state requirements relating to our business and products. In particular, we are subject to the California Safe Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, known as Proposition 65. Among other requirements, Proposition 65 imposes labeling and record keeping requirements. Non-compliance may result in significant penalties or fines, and future amendments to Proposition 65 could result in increased labeling or other compliance obligations applicable to our products. We are a member of the International Carbon Black Association (the “ICBA”), which currently consists of representatives from carbon black manufacturers in Canada, Europe, the United States, South America, Asia and Africa. The ICBA seeks to address common environmental, health and safety issues, undertakes research on health implications of carbon black, and serves as the leading advocate for the industry in the regulatory and public-interest arenas. The ICBA conducts research on international environmental, health, product safety and workplace safety matters and is currently in the process of founding a regional subgroup covering Asia. We are also a member of the European consortium for carbon black (“cb4reach Consortium”) which has pre-registered and registered carbon black and materials containing carbon black at the ECHA as required by the REACH Regulation. Besides the Company, the following companies are members of the cb4reach Consortium: Cabot Corporation, Cancarb Limited, Birla Carbon, Continental Carbon Company, Sid Richardson Carbon & Energy Company, and Imerys S.A. 36Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees and customers is one of our highest priorities. We maintain very good performance in occupational injury and illness rates. New employees and contractors working on site are given environmental, health and safety training and we keep track of environmental, health and safety matters. Employees are required to report and log incidents including near misses into the electronic EHS management system. Our sites are required to implement and report EHS leading and lagging indicators for EHS performance. Plant managers are required to track and monitor these leading and lagging indicators and take action as appropriate. Leading and lagging indicator data and incidents are reviewed by senior management on a monthly basis. A strategic safety team provides for development, implementation and auditing of safety activities and promotes safety accountability by our personnel. Carbon black is produced under controlled conditions and has high purity levels. It therefore differs from other combustion products that may contain high concentrations of hazardous compounds. Due to its high purity, certain carbon black grades are permitted for use in cosmetics or in products in contact with food. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (“IARC”) classifies carbon black as a Group 2B substance (known animal carcinogen, possible human carcinogen). We have communicated IARC’s classification of carbon black to our customers and employees in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. The Permanent Senate Commission for the Investigation of Health Hazards of Chemical Compounds in the Work Area (the “MAK Commission”) of the German Research Foundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft), which uses a different rating system, classifies carbon black as a suspect carcinogen (Category 3B). Other national and international health organizations have not rated carbon black. Any risk reclassification of our raw materials, intermediates or finished product could result in increased operating costs or affect product lines or sales. The European Commission is in the process of concluding a definition of “nano.” According to its recommendation of October 18, 2011 (2011/696/EU), carbon black was defined as a nano-material. In a similar approach the ISO developed the ISO TC 229 “Nanotechnologies,” which considers carbon black as “nano-structured material.” Other countries (that is, US, Canada, etc.) are also considering implementing regulations related to raw materials in nano size. The industry is not yet impacted by these definitions but there have been regulations discussed, particularly for cosmetics applications or articles that are intended for food contact, which may impact the use of carbon black in the future. This development may significantly impact our business in a manner we cannot predict, including by increasing the costs of doing business. South Korean Tax Assessment A tax audit for our South Korean operations for 2011 concluded in December 2014 by way of final settlement. The South Korean tax authorities questioned among other matters the valuation assigned to our acquisition of those operations from Evonik in 2011. A different valuation would have resulted in different capital gains tax due to the authorities. We as acquirer are obliged to pay over those capital gains tax as withholding agent on behalf of Evonik. After extensive discussions - involving Evonik - a mutual assessment regarding the valuation was reached and accepted by all parties at the end of November 2014. Evonik furthermore accepted to hold us harmless and reimbursed in full our withholding tax obligation. Reimbursement in this regard was received in December which we have passed through to the South Korean tax authorities in December as well. All other matters raised during the audit were concluded as well without material impact on the Company's result of operations or cash flow and are reflected in these consolidated financial statements. Further Regulatory Matters We are subject to further governmental regulation from national, European Union and other international regulatory authorities concerning, among other things: product safety, export and import control regulations and other customs regulations, data protection and our competitive and marketplace conduct. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these regulations. We cannot guarantee, however, that any future changes in the requirements or mode of enforcement of these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. On November 27, 2013, the city of Huerth (Germany) granted a permit to build a facility for child and adolescent psychiatry and psychotherapy on premises located approximately 500 meters away from our production site in Cologne (Germany). If the construction is complete and the clinic begins operation, our production plant in Cologne (Germany) may become subject to stricter regulatory requirements under German emissions laws. Therefore, we initiated expedited and regular proceedings for injunctive relief to prevent the construction of the clinic and to challenge the building permit. On April 16, 2014, the court decided by expedited decision in our favor and granted preliminary injunctive relief by ordering an immediate building freeze. On appeal, the appellate court temporarily lifted the immediate building freeze but ultimately reinstalled it in our favor. The decision on the challenge of the building permit is still pending. We were approached by the land owner to find an amicable solution and settlement discussions with him are currently ongoing and expected to be finalized in the near future.37C.Organizational StructureBelow is a simplified diagram of the Company’s corporate structure as of December 31, 2014. Subsidiaries For a list of our subsidiaries see note (4) List of shareholdings to the consolidated financial statements. D. Property, Plants and EquipmentSee “—B. Business Overview—Production—Production Facilities.” Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations and financial condition during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and should be read in conjunction with the information included under "