Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors below in connection with the other sections of this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could have a material effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common units.Risks Related to our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distribution, to holders of our common, Class A, subordinated and general partner units. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit per quarter, or $1.15 per unit on an annualized basis, we require available cash of approximately $6.7 million per quarter, or $26.8 million per year, based on the number of common, Class A, subordinated and general partner units outstanding at December 31, 2015. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •our entitlement to minimum monthly payments associated with our take-or-pay terminal services agreements and the impact of credits for unutilized contractual capacity; •the rates and terminalling fees we charge for the volumes we handle; •the volume of crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons we handle; •damage to terminals, railroads, pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism including damage to third party pipelines, railroads or facilities upon which we rely for transportation services; •leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, including explosions, chemical fumes or other similar events, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; •prevailing economic and market conditions; including low or volatile commodity prices and their effect on our customers;•the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs; •regulatory action affecting railcar design or the transportation of crude oil by rail; and•the supply of, or demand for, crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; •our debt service requirements and other liabilities; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar, including the Canadian dollar; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; •restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and •other business risks affecting our cash levels. 19We serve customers who are involved in drilling for, producing and transporting crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons. Adverse developments affecting the fossil fuel industry or drilling activity, including continuing low or further reduced prices of crude oil or biofuels, reduced demand for crude oil products and increased regulation of drilling, production or transportation could cause a reduction of volumes transported through our terminals.Our business, including our ability to grow our business through the contracting and development of new terminals, as well as our ability to secure renewals or extensions of agreements with customers at our existing terminals, depends on the continued development, production and demand for crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons from areas unserved or underserved by existing alternative transportation solutions. The willingness of exploration and production companies to develop and produce crude oil in particular producing regions depends largely on their ability to conduct these activities profitably, which in turn depends largely upon the markets for and prices of crude oil and other commodities. A sustained reduction in the prices of crude oil and other commodities would have a material adverse effect on our business. The factors impacting the prices of crude oil and other commodities include the supply of and demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including:•worldwide and regional economic conditions;•worldwide and regional political events, including actions taken by foreign oil producing nations;•worldwide and regional weather events and conditions, including natural disasters and seasonal changes that could decrease supply or demand;•the levels of domestic and international production and consumer demand;•the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;•fluctuations in demand for crude oil, such as those caused by refinery downtime or shutdowns;•fluctuations in the price of crude oil, which may have an impact on the spot prices for the transportation of crude oil by pipeline or railcar;•increased government regulation or prohibition of the transportation of hydrocarbons by rail;•the volatility and uncertainty of world crude oil prices as well as regional pricing differentials;•fluctuations in gasoline consumption;•the price and availability of alternative fuels;•changes in mandates to blend renewable fuels, such as ethanol, into petroleum fuels;•the price and availability of the raw materials used to produce ethanol, such as corn;•the effect of energy conservation measures, such as more efficient fuel economy standards for automobiles;•the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including the amount of subsidies for ethanol;•fluctuations in demand from electric power generators and industrial customers; and•the anticipated future prices of oil and other commodities.The prices of crude oil and related products have dropped precipitously since the second quarter of 2014 and have been negatively affected by a combination of factors, including weakening demand, increased worldwide production, the decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to keep production levels unchanged and a strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to most other currencies. Further downward pressure on crude oil prices continued throughout 2015, and we expect continuing low crude oil prices through 2016. Our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal both derive a majority of the crude oil volumes they transport from the Canadian oil sands, which are considered to have relatively high production costs. As a result of the current cycle of low prices for crude oil, exploration and production companies operating in the Canadian oil sands have and may further reduce capital spending on upgrader and other expansion projects designed to increase crude oil production. We expect that further reductions in crude oil prices or prices remaining at current levels for a prolonged period of time may result in further reductions in capital spending, which would likely decrease the likelihood that our existing customers would renew their contracts with us at current prices or at all, reduce the opportunities for us to grow our Hardisty and Casper assets and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 20We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.We generate the vast majority of our operating cash flow in connection with providing crude oil terminalling services at our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal. Substantially all of the capacity at our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal is contracted under multi-year, take-or-pay terminal services agreements. A sustained reduction in the prices of crude oil and other commodities could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ businesses. In particular, oil sands production in Canada may be particularly susceptible to decline as a result of long-term reductions in the price of crude oil due to its relatively high production costs. As a result, some of our customers may have material financial or liquidity issues or may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger or better-capitalized companies. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. In addition, liquidity issues resulting from sustained lower crude oil prices could lead our customers to go into bankruptcy or could encourage them to seek to repudiate, cancel, renegotiate or fail to renew their agreements with us for various reasons. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.Additionally, one customer has the right, but not the obligation, to exclusively use all of our capacity at our San Antonio terminal under a contract that has a current term expiring in February 2017, and was also the sole customer under contract at our West Colton terminal. The West Colton agreement is terminable at any time. If we were unable to renew our contracts with one or more of these customers, including customers at our Hardisty terminal or Casper terminal, on favorable terms, we may not be able to replace any of these customers in a timely fashion, on favorable terms or at all.The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units, Class A units, subordinated units and general partner units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.Our contracts subject us to renewal risks. We provide terminalling services for liquid hydrocarbons and biofuels under contracts with terms of various durations and renewal. Each of the seven terminal services agreements with our Hardisty terminal customers has an initial contract term of five years. The initial terms of six of these agreements commenced between June 30, 2014 and August 1, 2014, and the initial term of a seventh agreement commenced on October 1, 2014. Our sole customer contract for our San Antonio terminal has a current term expiring in February 2017 with an automatic renewal for one additional 18 month term unless notice is provided by our customer. Our sole customer contract for our West Colton terminal is terminable at any time. The three terminal services agreements with our Casper terminal customers have an initial contract term of three to five years and a volume-weighted average contract life of approximately 2.8 years as of December 31, 2015. As these contracts expire, we will have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may not be able to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or maintain the overall mix of our contract portfolio if, for example, prevailing crude oil prices remain at historically low amounts or have further decreased. Depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of a contract renewal, customers with fee-based contracts may desire to enter into contracts under different fee arrangements. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage 21our overall contract mix over time, our revenue and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected if service on the railroads is interrupted or if more stringent regulations are adopted regarding railcar design or the transportation of crude oil by rail. We do not own or operate the railroads on which crude-oil-carrying railcars are transported; however, we do manage a railcar fleet that is subject to regulations governing railcar design and manufacture. Due to increased use of hydraulic fracturing and other changes in extraction technologies, the volume of crude oil and liquid hydrocarbons produced and transported in North America has increased substantially, and the geographic location of that production has shifted as compared to historical production. As a result a growing percentage of crude oil is being transported by rail. High-profile accidents involving crude-oil-carrying trains in Quebec, North Dakota,Virginia, West Virginia and Illinois, in conjuction with increased use of rail transportation, have raised concerns about the environmental and safety risks associated with crude oil transport by rail and railcar design. The DOT and Transport Canada have announced a series of directives and other actions to address rail safety concerns. Among the directives is a final rule issued May 1, 2015 requiring that: DOT-111 railcars used to transport crude oil and ethanol that are not compliant with required safety standards be phased out or retrofitted as early as May 1, 2017 (January 1, 2018 in the U.S.), with none in use after May 1, 2023 and CPC-1232 railcars used to transport crude oil and ethanol that are not compliant with required safety standards be phased out or retrofitted as early as April 1, 2020, with none in use after May 1, 2025. We currently provide fleet services for 2,731 railcars that are subject to this rule, but which have leases that will expire before May 2017, and 375 railcars that will still be under contract and will be required to be retrofitted pursuant to this rule. We do not own any of the railcars in our railcar fleet and are not directly responsible for costs associated with the retrofitting of DOT-111 railcars. However, costs associated with the retrofitting of railcars would increase the incremental monthly cost of the applicable railcar lease, which cost is expected to be passed through to our customers and could affect demand for our services. The timing of retrofits to the rail cars we manage could disrupt our operations; however, we intend to work with our railcar suppliers on modification scheduling in an attempt to avoid major disruptions. DOT and Transport Canada have also required operators to take certain precautions relating to rail routing, and mandated reductions in train speed and the implementation of new braking technology, to address rail safety concerns. The recent changes to U.S. and Canadian regulations and the adoption of additional federal, state, provincial or local laws or regulations, including any voluntary measures by the rail industry regarding railcar design or crude oil and liquid hydrocarbon rail transport activities, or efforts by local communities to restrict or limit rail traffic involving crude oil, could affect our business by increasing compliance costs and decreasing demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows. Moreover, any disruptions in the operations of railroads, including those due to shortages of railcars, weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts or bottlenecks, could adversely impact our customers’ ability to move their product and, as a result, could affect our business. Changes in, or challenges to, our pipeline rates and other terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our dedicated crude oil pipeline at the Casper terminal is subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. FERC regulates the interstate transportation services provided on our dedicated crude oil pipeline system under the ICA, the EPAct 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. FERC regulations require that rates for interstate service on pipelines that transport crude oil and refined petroleum products (collectively referred to as “petroleum pipelines”) and certain other liquids to be just and reasonable, not be unduly discriminatory and not confer any undue preference upon any shipper. FERC regulations also require interstate common carrier petroleum pipelines to file with FERC and publicly post tariffs stating their interstate transportation rates and terms and conditions of service. Under the ICA, FERC or interested persons may challenge existing or changed rates or services. FERC is authorized to investigate such charges and may suspend the effectiveness of a new rate for up to seven months. A successful rate challenge could result in a common carrier paying refunds together with interest for the period that the 22rate was in effect. FERC may also order a pipeline to change its rates, and may require a common carrier to pay shippers reparations for damages sustained for a period up to two years prior to the filing of a complaint.Intrastate services provided by our pipeline are subject to regulation by the Wyoming Public Service Commission. The Wyoming Public Service Commission uses a complaint-based system of regulation, both as to matters involving rates and priority of access. The Wyoming Public Service Commission could limit our ability to increase our rates or to set rates based on our costs or order us to reduce our rates and require the payment of refunds to shippers. FERC and state regulatory commissions generally have not investigated rates unless the rates are the subject of a protest or a complaint. However, FERC or the Wyoming Public Service Commission could investigate our rates on its own initiative or at the urging of a third party. If FERC or the Wyoming Public Service Commission were to lower our tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service we might propose, the profitability of our dedicated crude oil pipeline and terminal located in Casper, Wyoming, could suffer. In addition, if we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for the dedicated crude oil pipeline, there might be a significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Furthermore, competition from other pipelines and terminals may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if FERC or the Wyoming Public Service Commission permits us to do so. FERC and the Wyoming Public Service Commission periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of service. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.Because we have a limited operating history, you may have difficulty evaluating our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders, or our ability to be successful in implementing our business strategy. We are dependent on our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal for a substantial majority of our cash flow. As recently constructed terminalling facilities, the operating performance of the Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal over the long term is not yet proven. We may encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies whose performance is dependent upon newly constructed facilities, such as the terminals not functioning as expected, higher than expected operating costs, breakdown or failures of equipment and operational errors. Because of our limited operating history and performance record at the Hardisty and Casper terminals, it may be difficult for you to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects. Further, our historical financial statements present a period of limited operations, and therefore do not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our operations or our ability to achieve our business strategy. We may be less successful in maintaining a consistent operating level at the Hardisty and Casper terminals capable of generating cash flows from our operations sufficient to regularly pay a cash distribution, or to pay any cash distribution to our unitholders than a company whose major facilities have had longer operating histories. Finally, we may be less equipped to identify and address operating risks and hazards in the conduct of our businesses at the Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal than those companies whose major facilities have had longer operating histories. The lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders. Our current terminals are located in Texas, California, Wyoming and Alberta, Canada. We generate the vast majority of our operating cash flow in connection with providing crude oil terminalling services at our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal, both of which receive the majority of their crude oil from the Canadian oil sands through the Hardisty hub. Due to the lack of diversification in our assets and geographic location, an adverse development in our businesses or areas of operations, especially to our Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal, including those due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action or decreases in the price of, or demand for, crude oil, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. In particular, oil sands production in Canada may be particularly susceptible to decline as a result of long-term declines in the price of crude oil, which could materially impact the results of operations at our Hardisty terminal and our Casper terminal, and the ability of USD Group LLC to contract for and complete expansions of the Hardisty terminal.23Changes in the provincial royalty rates and drilling incentive programs in Canada could decrease the oil and gas exploration and pipeline activities in Canada, which could adversely affect the demand for our terminalling services. Certain provincial governments collect royalties on the production from lands owned by the government of Canada. These fiscal royalty regimes are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the respective provincial governments for appropriateness and competitiveness. Any increase in the royalty rates assessed by, or any decrease in the drilling incentive programs offered by, a provincial government could negatively affect the drilling activity, which could adversely affect the demand for our terminalling services.The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities and reduce our liquidity. We are particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our operations because most of our terminalling operations are conducted at the Hardisty terminal and Casper terminal. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline or railcar ruptures and spills, third party interference and mechanical failure of equipment at our terminals, any of which could result in disruptions, pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in the normal course of operations and following unforeseen events. Because the vast majority of our cash flow is generated from our operations conducted at our Hardisty terminal and our Casper terminal, any sustained disruption at the Hardisty terminal or the Gibson storage terminal, which is the source of all of the crude oil handled by our Hardisty terminal, or the Express pipeline, which is the primary source of the crude oil handled by the Casper terminal, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. We may not be able to compete effectively and our business is subject to the risk of a capacity overbuild of midstream infrastructure and the entrance of new competitors in the areas where we operate. We face competition in all aspects of our business and can give no assurances that we will be able to compete effectively. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, crude oil pipelines, ocean going tankers, major integrated oil companies, independent gatherers, trucking companies and crude oil marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. We compete against these companies on the basis of many factors, including geographic proximity to production areas, market access, rates, terms of service, connection costs and other factors. Some of our competitors have capital resources many times greater than ours. We also face competition from current and potential customers who may choose to construct or acquire terminalling or other infrastructure assets rather than obtain services from us. A significant driver of competition in some of the markets where we operate is the rapid development of new midstream infrastructure capacity driven by the combination of (i) significant increases in oil and gas production and development in the applicable production areas, both actual and anticipated, (ii) low barriers to entry and (iii) generally widespread access to relatively low cost capital. This environment exposes us to the risk that these areas become overbuilt, resulting in an excess of midstream infrastructure capacity. Most midstream projects require several years of “lead time” to develop and companies like us that develop such projects are exposed (to varying degrees depending on the contractual arrangements that underpin specific projects) to the risk that expectations for oil and gas development in the particular area may not be realized or that too much capacity is developed relative to the demand for services that ultimately materializes. In addition, as an established player in some markets, we also face competition from potential new entrants to the market. If we experience a significant capacity overbuild in one or more of the areas where we operate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. 24 Any reduction in our or our customers’ capability to utilize third-party pipelines, railroads or trucks that interconnect with our terminals or to continue utilizing them at current costs could cause a reduction of volumes transported through our terminals. We and the customers of our terminals are dependent upon access to third-party pipelines, railroads and truck fleets to receive and deliver crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons to or from us. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, railroads and other midstream facilities or assets is not within our control. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of these third parties due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes in the case of pipelines, or track repairs, in the case of railroads, could result in reduced volumes transported through our terminals. In particular, we entered into a facilities connection agreement with Gibson whereby Gibson would construct a pipeline to provide our Hardisty terminal with exclusive pipeline access to Gibson’s Hardisty storage terminal, which is the source of all of the crude oil handled by our Hardisty terminal. In addition, a substantial amount of the crude oil handled by our Casper terminal is sourced from the Express Pipeline. Any disruption at Gibson’s Hardisty storage terminal or along the Express Pipeline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volume over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to our existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which could reduce volumes transported through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. Any such increases in cost, interruptions, or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We do not own some of the land on which our terminals are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our West Colton and San Antonio terminals are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or leases or if such rights-of-way or leases lapse or terminate at those facilities. We sometimes obtain the rights to land owned by railroads for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or leases, or otherwise, could cause us to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere and reduce our revenue.Increases in rail freight costs may adversely affect our results of operations. The largest component of a shipment of crude by rail is the rail freight transportation costs. Unlike terminal services fees, which are typically established by long-term contracts, railroad freight transportation is typically purchased on a spot basis. Accordingly, if the freight costs of transportation of crude by rail increase significantly, it may become less attractive or unattractive to ship crude by rail. In addition, transporters of hydrocarbons by rail compete with other parties, such as coal, grain and corn, which ship their product by rail. Demand for transportation of crude or other products by rail has previously caused shortages in available locomotives and railroad crews. Such shortages may ultimately increase the cost to transport hydrocarbons by rail. Additionally, diesel fuel costs generally fluctuate with increasing and decreasing world crude oil prices, and accordingly are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside of our control. Diesel fuel prices are a significant component of the costs to our customers of shipping hydrocarbons by rail. Increased costs to ship hydrocarbons by rail could curtail demand for shipment of hydrocarbons by rail which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them for the transportation of crude oil may not escalate sufficiently or at all to cover increases in costs, and the agreements may be temporarily suspended or terminated in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability. We generate the vast majority of our operating cash flow in connection with providing crude oil terminalling services at our Hardisty and Casper terminals. Substantially all of the capacity at our Hardisty and Casper terminals is contracted under multi-year, take-or-pay terminal services agreements, which, in the case of our Hardisty terminal, are subject to inflation-based rate escalators. The terminal services agreements at our Casper terminal are not subject to inflation-based rate escalators. Any inflation-based escalators in our terminal services agreements may be insufficient 25to compensate for increases in our costs. Additionally, some customers’ obligations under their agreements with us may be temporarily suspended upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, or may be terminated in the case of uninterrupted force majeure events of over one year wherein the supply of crude oil is curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers, or any cause or causes of any kind or character (except financial) reasonably beyond the control of the party failing to perform. If either the escalation of fees under the terminal services agreements at our Hardisty terminal is insufficient to cover increased costs, we experience increased costs at our Casper terminal, or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our right of first offer to acquire certain of USD’s existing assets and projects and certain projects that it may develop, construct or acquire in the future is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets or businesses. Our omnibus agreement provides us with a right of first offer for a period of seven years from October 15, 2014 on certain of USD’s existing assets and projects as well as any additional midstream infrastructure that it may develop, construct or acquire in the future, subject to certain exceptions. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions pursuant to this right will depend upon, among other things, USD’s continued development of midstream infrastructure projects and successful execution of such projects, USD’s willingness to offer assets for sale and obtain any necessary consents, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to such assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions or successfully integrate assets acquired pursuant to our right of first offer. Furthermore, USD is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. Additionally, the approval of Energy Capital Partners is required for the sale of any assets by USD or its subsidiaries, including us (other than sales in the ordinary course of business), acquisitions of securities of other entities that exceed specified materiality thresholds and any material unbudgeted expenditures or deviations from our approved budgets. Energy Capital Partners may make these decisions free of any duty to us and our unitholders. This approval would be required for the potential acquisition by us of any projects to expand the Hardisty terminal, as well as any other projects or assets that USD may develop or acquire in the future or any third party acquisition we may intend to pursue jointly or independently from USD. Energy Capital Partners is under no obligation to approve any such transaction. Please refer to the discussion under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Special Approval Rights of Energy Capital Partners regarding the rights of Energy Capital Partners. In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. Further, our right of first offer may be terminated by USD at any time in the event that it no longer controls our general partner. Please refer to the discussion under Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12. Transactions with Related Parties for additional information regarding our omnibus agreement. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from USD or third parties, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we may make could reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash flow. If we are unable to make acquisitions from USD or third parties, because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase agreements, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, we are outbid by competitors or we or the seller are unable to obtain any necessary consents, our future growth and ability to increase distributions to unitholders will be limited. Energy Capital Partners must also approve the acquisition of the securities of any entity by us if the acquisition exceeds specified thresholds. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, we may not realize the intended benefits, and the acquisition may in fact result in a decrease in cash flow. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; •the assumption of unknown liabilities; •limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; 26•mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; •the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the acquisition of the Casper terminal or any other future acquisitions with our existing operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. From time to time, we evaluate and expect to acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses, such as our acquisition of the Casper terminal. These acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. For example, our inability to successfully integrate the Casper terminal or any other future acquisition into our existing operations and asset platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Growing our business by constructing new terminals subjects us to construction risks and risks that supplies for such systems and facilities will not be available upon completion thereof. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new terminals. The construction of such facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our resources, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new terminal, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until at least after completion of the project, if at all. Moreover, we may construct terminals to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize or for which we are unable to acquire new customers. We may also rely on estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves in our decision to build new terminals, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved, probable or possible reserves. As a result, new terminals may not be able to attract enough product to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We may be subject to liability or expense in connection with the use of our railcars by our customers. We lease an aggregate of 3,306 railcars from various railcar manufacturers and financial entities and we provide these railcars to our customers pursuant to master fleet services agreements. We have assigned certain payment and performance obligations under the leases and master fleet services agreements for 2,653 of these railcars to related parties associated with USD on an arms-length basis, but have retained certain rights and obligations with respect to the servicing of these railcars Although our customers are responsible for the use, maintenance and condition of the railcars subject to their master fleet services agreements, we, and not our customers, are directly responsible to our lessors. In the event that our lessors seek to recover any costs at lease expiration resulting from the condition of the railcars, they will primarily look to us to recoup these amounts. Although our customers have generally agreed to be responsible for any costs we incur as a result of their use of our railcars, our customers may deny culpability for any 27specific costs. In the event that we are unable to resolve disputes related to return costs with our lessors and our customers, we may be obligated to pay the associated costs ourselves or the disputes may result in legal proceedings. Any such legal proceedings may be costly and we may not be able to recover our costs of participation in such proceedings from either the lessors or our customers. In addition, in the event that any such legal proceeding results in a judgement against us that is not reimbursable by our customer, such judgement could result in material costs for us. Finally, as the lessee of our railcars, we may be named in any legal proceedings related to any damage to third parties or the environment caused by the use of our railcars by our customers. In the event that we are unable to obtain indemnification from our customers as a result of such litigations, we may incur material liabilities. Any costs or liabilities resulting from our customers’ use of our railcars could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions.USD and its controlled affiliates, including us, are subject to a noncompete agreement that may limit our growth opportunities. USD and certain of its controlled affiliates, including us, are subject to a noncompete agreement until December 2016 with respect to terminals we sold in 2012 in Carr, Colorado; Cotulla, Texas; Van Hook, North Dakota; Bakersfield, California; and St. James Parish, Louisiana. The noncompete agreement prohibits us from owning, managing, operating or engaging in business activities related to terminalling services within a 200-mile radius of each of these facilities with respect to grades of crude oil and condensate historically handled by the facilities, or a 100-mile radius with respect to all other grades of crude oil or condensate. As a result of this noncompete agreement, our future growth may be limited during the term of the noncompete agreement. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future laws, regulations and other requirements could significantly increase our costs of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Our industry is subject to laws, regulations and other requirements including, but not limited to, those relating to the environment, safety, employment, labor, immigration, minimum wages and overtime pay, health care and benefits, working conditions, public accessibility and other requirements. These laws and regulations are enforced by federal agencies including the EPA, the DOT, PHMSA, the FRA, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, OSHA, state agencies such as the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, the Railroad Commission of Texas, the California Environmental Protection Agency, or Cal/EPA, the California Public Utilities Commission, or CPUC, and Canadian agencies such as Environment Canada and Transport Canada as well as numerous other state and federal agencies. Ongoing compliance with, or a violation of, these laws, regulations and other requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. In addition, these laws and regulations, and the interpretation or enforcement thereof, are subject to frequent change by regulatory authorities, and we are unable to predict the ongoing cost to us of complying with these laws and regulations or the future impact of these laws and regulations on our operations. Violation of environmental laws, regulations and permits can result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and construction bans or delays. Under various federal, state, provincial and local environmental requirements, as the owner or operator of terminals, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at our existing locations, whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. The failure to timely report and properly remediate contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow money using our property as collateral. Additionally, we may be liable for the costs of remediating third-party sites where hazardous substances from our operations have been transported for treatment or disposal, regardless of whether we own or operate that site. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not yet been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire. A discharge of hydrocarbons or hazardous substances into the environment could, to the extent the event is not insured or insurance is not otherwise available, subject us to substantial expense, including the cost to respond in 28compliance with applicable laws and regulations, fines and penalties, natural resource damages and claims made by employees, neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage. We may experience future catastrophic sudden or gradual releases into the environment from our pipeline or terminals or discover historical releases that were previously unidentified or not assessed. Although our inspection and testing programs are designed in compliance with applicable legal requirements to prevent, detect and address these releases promptly, damages and liabilities incurred due to any future environmental releases from our assets have the potential to substantially affect our business. Such discharges could also subject us to media and public scrutiny that could have a negative effect on the value of our common units. Environmental, safety and other regulation is becoming more stringent, penalties for violations have been increased and are expected to increase to very substantial amounts, and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed. Moreover, interpretations of existing requirements change from time to time. While we cannot predict the impact that future environmental, health and safety requirements or changed interpretations of existing requirements may have on our operations, such future activity may result in material expenditures to ensure our continued compliance and material costs if we are found not to be in compliance. Such future activity could adversely affect our operations, cash flow and net revenues. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations. Our operations require authorizations and permits that are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control and safety-related equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. The implementation of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives contracts to reduce the effect of foreign exchange, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress in 2010 adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act"), which, among other things, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. While many regulations have been promulgated and are already in effect, the rule making and implementation process is still ongoing, and we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the regulations on our business. The legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts, materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, or if we fail to recover anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the provision of terminalling services, including: •damage to railroads and terminals, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties; •damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment or other causes; 29•leaks of crude oil and other hydrocarbons or regulated substances or losses of oil as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; •ruptures, fires and explosions; and •other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These and similar risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could also have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in claims for remediation, damages to natural resources or injuries to personal property or human health. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Future terrorist or cyber-attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, USD Group LLC, could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital and additionally have a direct impact on our ability to pay our minimum quarterly distribution The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and USD Group LLC, neither of which has a rating from any credit agency, may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because our general partner, which is owned by USD Group LLC, controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Any adverse change in the financial condition of USD Group LLC, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from us to service its indebtedness may adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or USD Group LLC, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of USD Group LLC and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions to common unitholders. 30 Our growth strategy requires access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to grow. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions or growth capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to new capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our initial cost of equity include market conditions, including our then current unit price, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. Weak economic conditions and the volatility and disruption in the financial markets could increase the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets substantially, while diminishing the availability of funds from those markets. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally, and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have raised interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all at maturity or on terms similar to existing debt outstanding and reduced and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. These factors may limit our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the types of assets we contemplate purchasing. Weak economic conditions and competition for asset purchases could limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. While Energy Capital Partners has indicated an intention to invest over an additional $1.0 billion of equity capital in USD, subject to market and other conditions, it has not made a commitment to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us. Furthermore, Energy Capital Partners must approve any issuances of additional equity by us, which determination may be made free of any duty to us or our unitholders, and members of our general partner’s board of directors appointed by Energy Capital Partners must approve the incurrence by us or refinancing of our indebtedness outside of the ordinary course of business, which may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $242.5 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit and term loan facility. We have the ability to incur additional debt, including under our senior secured credit agreement. Our future level of debt could have important consequences for us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes, may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders may be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. 31 Restrictions in our senior secured credit agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. Our senior secured credit agreement consists of a $300 million revolving credit facility and a $100 million term loan. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior secured credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our senior secured credit agreement limits our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; •make certain investments and acquisitions; •incur certain liens or permit them to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; •merge or consolidate with other affiliates; •transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; •engage in a materially different line of business; •enter into certain burdensome agreements; and •prepay other indebtedness. Our senior secured credit agreement also includes covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our senior secured credit agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable along with triggering the exercise of other remedies. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. We are subject to stringent environmental and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, provincial and local environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from pipelines, railcars and terminals, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations or at locations currently or previously owned or operated by us. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, the DOT, Environment Canada, Transport Canada and analogous state and provincial agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. 32 We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of hydrocarbon and other wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of hydrocarbon wastes on, under or from our properties and terminals. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in additional permitting obligations or more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil services we provide. In response to studies suggesting that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, over 190 countries, including the United States and Canada, reached an agreement to reduce GHG emissions at the Paris climate conference in December 2015. The terms of the Paris treaty to reduce GHG emissions are to become effective in 2020. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of GHGs. Comprehensive climate legislation appears unlikely to be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although additional energy legislation and other initiatives may be proposed that address GHGs and related issues. In addition, almost half of the states (including California and Texas, in which we operate), either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources could become subject to GHG-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations, and to the extent federal or state measures are successful in reaching hydrocarbon fuel usage, they could have an indirect effect on our business. Independent of Congress, the EPA is beginning to adopt regulations to address GHG emissions under its existing CAA authority. For example, in 2009, the EPA adopted rules regarding regulation of GHG emissions from motor vehicles. In addition, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States. In November 2010, EPA expanded this existing GHG emissions reporting rule to petroleum facilities, requiring reporting of GHG emissions by regulated petroleum facilities to the EPA beginning in 2012 and annually thereafter. In October 2015, EPA further expanded its GHG emissions reporting program to include onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting activities, as well as natural gas transmission pipelines. We monitor and report our GHG emissions. However, operational or regulatory changes could require additional monitoring and reporting at some or all of our other facilities at a future date. In 2010, the EPA also issued a final rule, known as the “Tailoring Rule,” that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for GHG emissions under the CAA. Several of the EPA’s GHG rules are being challenged in pending court proceedings and, depending on the outcome of such proceedings, such rules may be modified or rescinded or the EPA could develop new rules. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions in Canada or the United States would impact our business, any future federal, state or provincial laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons we handle in connection with our services. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of GHGs could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our terminals, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for oil, resulting in a decrease in demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. 33 Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in oil production by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues A portion of our customers’ oil production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice in the oil industry used to stimulate production of oil from dense subsurface rock formations in the United States and Canada. The process is typically regulated by state and provincial oil and natural gas commissions. Hydraulic fracturing has been subject to increased scrutiny due to public concerns that it could result in contamination of drinking water supplies, and there have been a variety of legislative and regulatory proposals to prohibit, restrict or more closely regulate various forms of hydraulic fracturing. For example, some U.S. states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Federal agencies, including the EPA and Bureau of Land Management, also have started to assert regulatory authority over certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing within their specific jurisdiction. In addition, various studies are currently underway by the EPA and other federal agencies concerning the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to, and potential litigation involving, oil production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to increased operating costs in the production of crude oil or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, either of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. The adoption of any federal, state, provincial or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil wells, increasing compliance costs and decreasing demand for our terminalling and other services, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management personnel. We are managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. All of the personnel that conduct our business are employed by affiliates of our general partner, but we sometimes refer to these individuals as our employees. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends on our continued ability and the ability of affiliates of our general partner to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel. Competition for these persons is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. We or affiliates of our general partner may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and the failure to retain or attract senior executives and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. Neither we nor our general partner maintains key person life insurance policies for any of our senior management team. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining our internal controls, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public 34accounting firm’s conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common units. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act), we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years from the October 2014 date of our IPO, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our limited partner interests held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected to “opt out” of this exemption and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common units to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our trading price may be more volatile. We may recognize impairment on long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review our goodwill and intangible assets for indicators of impairment in accordance with applicable accounting rules. Significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets may result in impairments to our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Any reduction in or impairment of the value of goodwill or intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations and financial condition. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial majority of the cash flows from our current assets will be generated in Canadian dollars, but we intend to make distributions to our unitholders in U.S. dollars. As such, a portion of our distributable cash flow will be subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations between U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars. For example, if the Canadian dollar weakens significantly, the corresponding distributable cash flow in U.S. dollars could be less than what is necessary to pay our minimum quarterly distribution. A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in our financing expenses and could materially affect our financial results under U.S. GAAP. In addition, because we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. GAAP, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods.35 Some of our customers’ operations cross the U.S./Canada border and are subject to cross-border regulation.Our customers’ cross border activities subject them to regulatory matters, including import and export licenses, tariffs, Canadian and U.S. customs and tax issues and toxic substance certifications. Such regulations include the Short Supply Controls of the Export Administration Act, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Violations of these licensing, tariff and tax reporting requirements could result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties on our customers. Our revenue and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.Risks Inherent in an Investment in UsOur general partner and its affiliates, including USD, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. USD indirectly owns a 50.1% limited partner interest and indirectly owns and controls our general partner, which owns a 2.0% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of its owner, USD. Conflicts of interest may arise between USD and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including USD, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:•neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires USD to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of USD have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of USD. USD may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets; •USD may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests; •our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner’s liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; •except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; •our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; •our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period, the conversion ratio of vested Class A units and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; •our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; •our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions, to affect the conversion ratio of Class A units to common units or to satisfy the conditions required to convert subordinated units to common units; •our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $18.5 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital 36surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; •our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; •our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; •our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the common units; •our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; •our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and •our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Please refer to the discussion under Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence regarding conflicts of interests and fiduciary duties of our general partner. Energy Capital Partners has substantial influence over USD and our general partner, and its interests may differ from those of USD, us and our public unitholders. Energy Capital Partners currently has the right to appoint three of seven members of USD’s board of directors and three of nine members of our general partner’s board of directors and may in the future have the right to appoint the majority of USD’s board of directors if it invests a specified amount in USD, or certain other conditions are met. For so long as Energy Capital Partners is able to appoint more than one member to USD’s board of directors, USD will not, and will not permit its subsidiaries, including us and our general partner, to take or agree to take certain actions without the affirmative vote of Energy Capital Partners, including, among others, any acquisitions or dispositions and any issuances of additional equity interests in us. Energy Capital Partners may make these decisions free of any duty to us and our unitholders. Additionally, members of our general partner’s board of directors appointed by Energy Capital Partners, if any, must approve any distributions made by us, any incurrence of debt by us and the approval, modification or revocation of our budget. As a result, Energy Capital Partners is able to significantly influence the management and affairs of USD and our general partner, including the amount of distributions we make, if any, our policies and operations, the appointment of management, future issuances of securities, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our organizational documents and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. The interests of Energy Capital Partners may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our common unitholders and, in certain situations, they have no duty to us or our unitholders. Energy Capital Partners may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our common unitholders, or Energy Capital Partners may have an interest in not pursuing transactions that would otherwise benefit us. For example, Energy Capital Partners could influence us to make acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets or to not make such acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures. In addition, Energy Capital Partners may have different tax considerations that could influence 37its position, including regarding whether and when to dispose of assets and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness. In addition, the structuring of future transactions by our general partner may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to our common unitholders or us. Energy Capital Partners may make the decisions to approve any acquisition or disposition by us free of any duty to us and our unitholders. Energy Capital Partners’ influence on USD and our general partner may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company. Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds are in the business of making investments in companies in the energy industry and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. USD’s limited liability company agreement provides that Energy Capital Partners shall not have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or any of our subsidiaries, and that in the event that Energy Capital Partners acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for itself and us or any of our subsidiaries, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and Energy Capital Partners shall not, to the fullest extent permitted by law, have any duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us or any of our subsidiaries and may pursue or acquire such corporate opportunity for itself or direct such corporate opportunity to another person. Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Please refer to the discussion under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Special Approval Rights of Energy Capital Partners regarding the rights of Energy Capital Partners. At any time following the fifth anniversary of the date of Energy Capital Partners’ investment in USD, Energy Capital Partners, upon giving written notice, shall have the right to compel USD to effect the total sale of Energy Capital Partners’ interests in USD (an ECP Exit). Such a sale could include an acquisition by the remaining owners of USD of Energy Capital Partners’ interests in USD or an initial public offering of USD. If the ECP Exit has not been completed within 180 days of the date USD receives notice of Energy Capital Partners’ desire to sell, Energy Capital Partners shall have the right to compel USD to effect a total sale of USD pursuant to an auction process on terms and conditions determined by, and in a process managed by, the members of USD’s board of directors that are appointed by Energy Capital Partners, provided that certain conditions in connection with the sale are met. We intend to distribute a significant portion of our available cash, which could limit our ability to pursue growth projects and make acquisitions. Pursuant to our cash distribution policy we intend to distribute most of our available cash, as that term is defined in our partnership agreement, to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we intend to distribute most of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our senior secured credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units as to distribution or liquidation, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash available to distribute to our unitholders. 38 The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion and our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Additionally, members of our general partner’s board of directors appointed by Energy Capital Partners must approve any distributions made by us. The board of directors of our general partner has adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to distribute quarterly at least $0.2875 per unit on all of our units to the extent we have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of our expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion. Additionally, members of our general partner’s board of directors appointed by Energy Capital Partners, if any, must approve any distributions made by us. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay distributions at all and our general partner’s board of directors has broad discretion in setting the amount of cash reserves each quarter. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of our cash distribution policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make and the decision to make any distribution is determined by the board of directors of our general partner as well as the members of our general partner’s board of directors appointed by Energy Capital Partners, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our general partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of our sponsor or its affiliates to the detriment of our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Please refer to the discussion under Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence regarding conflicts of interests and fiduciary duties of our general partner. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any higher standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and •provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement. 39 In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner of the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Please refer to the discussion under Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence regarding conflicts of interests and fiduciary duties of our general partner. Our general partner has limited liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner has limited liability under our contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. If you are not both a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, your common units may be subject to redemption. In order to avoid (1) any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by the FERC or analogous regulatory body, and (2) any substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or other authorization, in which we have an interest, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Citizenship eligible holders are individuals or entities whose nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or authorization, in which we have an interest, and will generally include individuals and entities who are U.S. citizens. Rate eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the market price as of the date three days before the date the notice of redemption is mailed. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. In addition, if you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder, you will not be entitled to voting rights. Cost reimbursements, which are determined in our general partner’s sole discretion, and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided are substantial and reduce our distributable cash flow to you. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement we are required to reimburse USD for providing certain general and administrative services to us. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates are substantial and reduces the amount of distributable cash flow to unitholders. For the twelve months ending December 31, 2016, we estimate that these expenses will be approximately $6.1 million, which includes, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. For a description of the cost reimbursements to our general partner, please read the discussion under Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12. Transactions with Related Parties regarding reimbursements to our general partner under the omnibus agreement. 40 Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner, which is indirectly owned by USD. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The unitholders are unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. At December 31, 2015, our general partner and its affiliates own 50.1% of the limited partnership interests entitled to vote in this matter (excluding general partner units and without consideration of any common units held by our officers, directors, employees and certain other persons affiliated with us). Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the time any subordinated units are outstanding and the subordinated units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units, and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Furthermore, all of the unvested Class A units will immediately vest and convert into common units based on the maximum conversion factor that could have applied to such Class A units. This conversion would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating the liquidation preference of common units over the Class A units, which would have otherwise continued while certain conditions remained unsatisfied. “Cause” is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing us will most likely result in the automatic conversion to common units of all remaining outstanding subordinated units. Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party at any time without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of USD Group LLC to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. 41 The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of USD selling or contributing additional midstream infrastructure assets and businesses to us, as USD would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, neither our partnership agreement nor our senior secured credit agreement prohibits the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units as to distributions or liquidations. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;•the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and •the market price of our common units may decline. USD Group LLC may sell our units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. USD Group LLC held 1,093,545 common units and 10,463,545 subordinated units at December 31, 2015. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis in separate, sequential tranches, with each tranche comprising 20.0% of the subordinated units outstanding at the closing of our IPO on October 15, 2014. A separate tranche will convert on each business day occurring no earlier than January 1, 2016 (but not more than once in any twelve-month period), assuming the conditions for conversion are satisfied. Additionally, we have agreed to provide USD Group LLC with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units. Our general partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of distributable cash flow to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of distributable cash flow to unitholders. 42 Affiliates of our general partner, including USD, and Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates may compete with us, and none of Energy Capital Partners, our general partner or any of their respective affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibits USD or any other affiliates of our general partner or Energy Capital Partners or its affiliates from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, USD and other affiliates of our general partner, and Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream infrastructure in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. For example, USD Group LLC currently owns the right to construct and further develop the Hardisty terminal, which USD Group LLC expects to complete in a future period. If we are unable to acquire these facilities from USD Group LLC, these expansions may compete directly with our Hardisty terminal for future throughput volumes, which may impact our ability to enter into new terminal services agreements, including with our existing customers, following the termination of our existing agreements or the terms thereof and our ability to compete for future spot volumes. As a result, competition from USD and other affiliates of our general partner could materially adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow to unitholders. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits the general partner or its affiliates. In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility, from USD or otherwise from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. These borrowings are permitted even if the purpose and effect of the borrowing is to enable us to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to satisfy the conditions required to convert subordinated units into common units. Our general partner has a limited call right that it may exercise at any time it or its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the outstanding limited partner interests and that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the then issued and outstanding common units, our general partner has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 9.2% of our common units (excluding any common units held by our officers, directors, employees and certain other persons affiliated with us) and 51.6% of our common units assuming the conversion of all subordinated units into common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made non-recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or •your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. 43 Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Because our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our distributable cash flow, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is affected by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect our interest expense and distributable cash flow, the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. The holder of our incentive distribution rights may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%, in addition to distributions paid on its 2.0% general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled the general partner to a quarterly cash distribution equal to distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior quarter. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us at the level that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general 44partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership.As a publicly traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our IPO. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that further increase our costs, including requirements to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting.The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of your investment.The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our quarterly distributions;•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of our common units; and•other factors described in these “Risk Factors.”Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state 45and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Notwithstanding our treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are subject to certain non-U.S.-taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, the distributable cash flow to our unitholders could be further reduced. Some of our business operations and subsidiaries are subject to income, withholding and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of distributable cash flow. In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a taxing authority could result in additional tax being imposed on us, reducing the distributable cash flow to our unitholders. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated tax being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reduce the distributable cash flow. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, you may not be able to credit them against your liability for U.S. federal income taxes on your share of our earnings. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, counties or cities, it would reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders. Changes in current state, county or city law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states, counties or cities. Several states have subjected, or are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the distributable cash flow to you and the value of our common units could be negatively impacted. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, companies with multinational operations or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, companies with multinational operations, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress and the President have periodically considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S.federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 46 Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs for any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. Some of our activities may not generate qualifying income, and we conduct these activities in a separate subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Corporate U.S. federal income tax paid by this subsidiary reduces our cash available for distribution. In order to maintain our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year must be qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. To ensure that 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year is qualifying income, we currently conduct a portion of our business, relating to railcar fleet services, in a separate subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.Such corporate subsidiary is subject to corporate-level federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and will also likely pay state (and possibly local) income tax at varying rates, on its taxable income. If the IRS were to successfully assert that such corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced.In May 2015, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations under the Internal Revenue Code that provide industry-specific guidance regarding whether income earned from certain activities will constitute qualifying income within the meaning of section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. We previously requested a ruling from the IRS on the qualifying nature of the income from our railcar business, but the IRS has informed us that they will not provide us with such a ruling as the issues presented in our request are under consideration in connection with the proposed Treasury Regulations. It is possible that these proposed Treasury Regulations will undergo significant changes prior to becoming final Treasury Regulations. If the final Treasury Regulations do not provide for a favorable result with respect to the income from our railcar fleet services business, we will remain subject to corporate-level tax on the revenues generated by this business. Conversely, if the final Treasury Regulations do provide for a favorable result, we may choose to restructure our railcar fleet services business into a pass-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such restructuring may result in a significant, one-time income tax liability and other costs, which may reduce our cash available for distribution in the near term.If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax return for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.47Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our general partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that such election will be effective in all circumstances. If we are unable to have our general partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such adjustments, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on a sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units, may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code and referred to as “Treasury Regulations.” A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. A successful IRS challenge could also affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a 48particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS recently issued Treasury Regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may be required to recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may be required to recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50.0% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has provided a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded 49partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders are likely subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in Alberta, Canada, California, Texas and Wyoming. Some of these jurisdictions currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. Our unitholders bear responsibility for filing all federal, state and local tax returns. 