Item 1A: Risk Factors Risk Factors: Industry cyclicality can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken. Profitability in the chicken industry is materially affected by the commodity prices of chicken and feed ingredients, which are determined by supply and demand factors, which result in cyclical earnings fluctuations. The production of feed ingredients is positively or negatively affected primarily by weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, and the agricultural policies of the United States and foreign governments. In particular, weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry’s and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens and deliver products. High feed ingredient prices have had a material adverse effect on our operating results in the past. We periodically seek, to the extent available, to enter into advance purchase commitments for the purchase of feed ingredients and enter into futures contracts, in an effort to manage our feed ingredient costs. The use of such instruments may not be successful. Feed Ingredients: Feed ingredient costs increased 18.5% in fiscal 2011 reflected as a $17.7 million increase of the overall $7.5 million increase in cost of sales as compared to fiscal 2010. The Company’s cost to acquire feed ingredients may continue to be volatile. In the long term, the protein sector of the food industry will be forced to pass the cost of our raw materials to the final consumer increasing our sales price per pound and related revenue, as well as our operating margins. The cost of ingredients, principally corn, has risen dramatically during the Company’s last two quarters so we will utilize substitute ingredients as available and as determined through feed optimization programs to mitigate the impact of the increased corn cost. The Company may choose to utilize derivatives as offered on the Chicago Board of Trade for the purpose of protecting the feed cost for fixed price sales commitments negotiated with our customers. The Company’s two primary feed ingredients are corn and soybean meal. A $0.10 per bushel price change in corn impacts our cost of sales by $784 thousand per year. A $10 per ton price change in soybean meal impacts our cost of sales by $870 thousand per year. The Company currently has no commodity contracts. Leverage: Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We presently have, and expect to continue to have, an amount of indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to stockholders. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, and failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default or require redemption of indebtedness. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is 3 Table of Contents dependent on various factors. These factors include the commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken and general economic, financial, competition, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. Additional Borrowings Available: Despite our indebtedness, we are not prohibited from incurring additional indebtedness in the future. Interest Rates: We currently have a term note payable with no exposure to interest rate fluctuations, as this existing indebtedness carries a fixed interest rate of 7.86%. We have a revolving credit facility which carries a variable interest rate, equal to the 90-day LIBOR rate published by the Wall Street Journal, plus a tiered applicable margin interest rate. The current rate on the revolving credit facility is 3.75%. Reference the Company’s SEC current reports (Form 8-K) filed on October 1, 2010 and April 11, 2011 and the quarterly report (Form 10-Q) filed on February 10, 2011 for information regarding the revolving credit facility. The Company had variable interest rate exposure on the revolving credit facility at April 2, 2011. The Company’s theoretical interest rate exposure on variable rate borrowings at April 2, 2011 with a one percentage point increase in average interest rates on the Company’s borrowings, would increase future interest expense by $13.6 thousand per month and a two percentage point increase would increase future interest expense by $27.1 thousand per month. The Company determined these amounts based on $16.3 million of variable rate borrowings at April 2, 2011, multiplied by 1.0% and 2.0%, respectively, and divided by twelve. The Company is currently not using any interest rate collars, hedges, or other derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce interest rate risk. As a result, any increase in interest rates on the Company’s variable rate borrowings would increase interest expense and reduce net income. Concentrations of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables or other financial instruments with a variety of customers and cash deposited with financial institutions. Concentrations of credit risk, with respect to accounts receivable and other financial instruments, are limited because a large number of geographically diverse customers make up the Company’s customer base, thus spreading the trade credit risk. The Company controls credit risk through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers, but generally does not require collateral to support accounts receivable. The Company, at various times during the year, maintained a cash balance with a financial institution in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (FDIC) insured limit of $250 thousand. As of the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011, the Company had $1.1 million of cash in excess of the federally insured amount. This financial institution previously participated in the federal government’s Transaction Account Guarantee program, thereby making all of the Company’s cash fully insured by the FDIC as of the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. Capital Resources: The Company incurred a net (loss) of $(566) thousand for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011. The Company has amended its long-term revolving line of credit agreement twice in the past four months, including changes to the minimum tangible net worth covenant in order to maintain compliance. Additionally, the Company failed one covenant in the term note payable agreement. On May 23, 2011, the term note lender granted and the Company executed a waiver for the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The lender now requires quarterly compliance certification instead of the previous annual certification. 4 Table of Contents At April 2, 2011, the Company had cash of $1.4 million, stockholders’ equity of $34.8 million, and available borrowings of $3.7 million on the primary revolving note. The Company also has full availability of the $5.0 million supplemental revolving note at April 2, 2011. The Company believes cash flows from operations and its financing commitments will be sufficient to meet capital and liquidity needs during the current fiscal year. Management has also developed plans to improve operating results and efficiencies in order to increase operating income. Contamination of Products: If our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. Livestock and Poultry Disease: Outbreaks of livestock diseases in general and poultry disease in particular, which are beyond our control, can significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations. We take all reasonable precautions to ensure that our flocks are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary and environmentally sound manner. However, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create negative publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our business, reputation, and prospects. Insurance: We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recall, property damage and injuries to persons for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate. Significant Competition: Competition in the chicken industry with other vertically integrated poultry companies could adversely affect our business. The Company produces a smaller bird at one of its processing plants which differentiates it from the majority of its competitors. Government Regulation: Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting our business. The chicken industry is subject to federal, state, and local governmental regulation, including health and environmental areas. We anticipate increased regulation by various agencies concerning food safety, the use of medication in feed formulations and the disposal of poultry by-products and wastewater discharges. Unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect our business or operations in the future. Deterioration of Economic Conditions: Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our poultry products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. Disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: · make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; 5 Table of Contents · cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any technical or other waivers under our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; · impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; · negatively impact demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Changes in Consumer Preference: The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands, and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. The Loss of One or More of Our Largest Customers: Our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers’ plans and/or markets should change significantly, or if we lost one or more of our largest customers. Many of our agreements with our customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice, and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. At the end of calendar 2009, our largest customer did not renew their sales contract for calendar 2010. However, the Company was able to attract new contract-based customers of similar volume that approximated this former customer’s sales volume. These new customers provided a market for our products without a significant deterioration in operating income. At the end of calendar 2010, the 2009 former largest customer did renew their sales contract for calendar 2011. We continually monitor our production output and will adjust accordingly. Members of the Cagle Family can Exercise Significant Control: Members of the Cagle family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 64.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, giving them control of 64.5% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In addition, three members of the Cagle family serve on the Company’s Board of Directors. As a result, members of the Cagle family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs, and over substantially all matters requiring action by the stockholders, including amendments to the certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all assets, and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by other stockholders and could depress the Company’s stock price. The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements made in this report, with respect to their current views and estimates of future economic circumstances, industry conditions, Company performance and financial results. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties which could cause the Company’s actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations, expressed in such forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the Company are the following: (1) fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials, such as feed grain costs; (2) changes in the availability and relative costs of labor and contract growers; (3) operating efficiencies of facilities; (4) market conditions for finished products, including the supply and pricing of alternative proteins; (5) effectiveness of marketing programs and advertising; (6) risks associated with leverage, including 6 Table of Contents cost increases due to rising interest rates; (7) risks associated with effectively evaluating derivatives and hedging activities; (8) changes in regulations and laws, including changes in accounting standards, environmental laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (9) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance, and any related claims or litigation; (10) adverse results from on-going litigation; (11) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations and import/export restrictions; (12) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; and (13) financial risk management. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 