Item 1A. Risk Factors and under the heading "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-We intend to enter into new lines of business and expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses." Specifically, our entry into the financial technology industry may present additional or heightened risks to our business including those relating to the management of information technology systems and infrastructure, cybersecurity, handling of confidential client and financial information and the protection and use of intellectual property.In addition, because we hold a controlling interest in MMKT and it is consolidated within our operating results for financial reporting purposes, we have and expect to continue to incur development and start-up costs and expenses that have a negative impact on our earnings. If MMKT is not successful, it may not produce substantial revenue or profit and we may not be able to recover these costs and expenses and our operating results could be adversely affected.Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the technology systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated by us or by third parties. Operational risks such as trading errors or interruption of our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled for any reason or if there is any unauthorized disclosure of data, whether as a result of tampering, a breach of our network security systems, a cyber-incident or attack or otherwise, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Insurance and other safeguards might be unavailable or might only partially reimburse us for our losses. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate.The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Additionally, any upgrades or expansions to our operations or technology may require significant expenditures and may increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations and failures.A failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our management employees or investment professionals were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical 14and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: •sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; •natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; •disease pandemics; •events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and/or•cyber-attacks. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends.Employee misconduct could expose us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.We are vulnerable to reputational harm, as we operate in an industry where integrity and the confidence of our clients are of critical importance. If an employee were to engage in illegal or suspicious activities, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation (as a consequence of the negative perception resulting from such activities), financial position, client relationships and ability to attract new clients. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential information. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose this information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships.Our new investment strategies may expose us to additional employee misconduct risks, for example with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anticorruption laws. While we may develop and implement policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance by us and our personnel with such potentially newly applicable regulations, including the FCPA, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations in the future. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other applicable anticorruption laws could subject us to significant penalties and negative effects on our business and operations.It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business.If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to market, operational, legal and reputational risks. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design or implementation or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses or face litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators.Our techniques for managing risks in our funds may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in those funds or to seek positive, risk-adjusted returns. In addition, any risk management failures could cause fund losses to be significantly greater than historical measures predict. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses in the net asset value of the funds and therefore a reduction in our revenues.15Our failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business.As we have expanded the scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest relating to our existing and future investment activities. For example, certain of our strategies have overlapping investment objectives, and potential conflicts of interest may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those strategies. In addition, investors (or holders of our Class A common stock) may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investment decisions for strategies in which our investment professionals, who have and may continue to make significant personal investments, are personally invested. It is possible that potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Adequately addressing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and we could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail, or appear to fail, to adequately address potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest. This could result in a loss of AUM and adversely affect our business and financial condition.In addition, Fifth Street Management and certain of our affiliates have received an exemptive order from the SEC, on September 9, 2014 that permits certain negotiated co-investments among our affiliates that would otherwise be prohibited under the 1940 Act. Such joint transactions among us and our affiliates may give rise to increased perceived or actual conflicts among investors in our funds.Our revolving credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to certain changes or to take future actions, and expose use to risks relating to the use of leverage.The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants. These covenants collectively impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The financial covenants, among other things, impose limitations on waiving or deferring management fees from our funds, require us not to exceed a total leverage ratio, require us to maintain a minimum AUM and require us to maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these and other covenants is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control but could nonetheless result in noncompliance. For example, our leverage ratio fluctuates depending upon changes in revenues and expenses relative to our outstanding debt; our consolidated interest coverage ratio fluctuates depending upon changes in revenues and expenses relative to our interest payment obligations; and the value of our AUM fluctuates due to a variety of factors, including mark-to-market valuations of certain assets, other market factors and our net capital raised or returned.Our credit agreement also contains other covenants that restrict our operations and a number of events that would constitute an event of default under the agreement. A failure by us to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement, which could give the lenders under the agreement the right to terminate their commitments to provide additional loans under our revolving credit facility and to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the debt under our credit agreement were accelerated, we might not have sufficient cash on hand to repay this debt, which could have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more detail regarding our current credit agreement and the status of our compliance with the related covenants, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Revolving Credit Facility."In addition, our incurrence of debt under the revolving credit facility will expose us to the typical risks associated with the use of leverage. Increased leverage makes it more difficult for us to withstand adverse economic conditions or business plan variances, to take advantage of new business opportunities or to make necessary capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2015, we had $65.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our credit facility.A change of control could result in termination of certain of our investment advisory agreements.Pursuant to the 1940 Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for the Fifth Street BDCs automatically terminates upon its deemed "assignment" and a BDC's board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its investment adviser. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and certain other transactions would be deemed an "assignment" pursuant to the 1940 Act. In addition, our investment advisory agreement with FSOF may not be "assigned" without the consent of the fund or the fund's limited partners. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that our pre-IPO owners dispose of enough of their interests in us such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from FSOF, or its limited partners, or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the Fifth Street BDCs. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing these funds, resulting in the loss of assets 16under management and a corresponding loss of revenue.We and FSC are currently subject to litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.We have been named as a defendant in several putative class-action lawsuits and derivative actions and we may possibly be subject to a variety of additional claims and lawsuits. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information concerning these lawsuits and actions. The outcome of any such proceedings may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results, and may continue without resolution for long periods of time. Any litigation may consume substantial amounts of our management’s time and attention, and that time and the devotion of these resources to litigation may, at times, be disproportionate to the amounts at stake in the litigation. In addition our involvement or our funds’ involvement in litigation could harm our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us. The litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. In addition, accounting rules may require us to record a liability related to a particular matter prior to its resolution if the incurrence of a loss related to such matter becomes probable and reasonably estimable. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses associated with defending ourselves against this litigation and other future claims, and these expenses may be material to our earnings in future periods.The majority of the lawsuits and derivative actions to which we have been named as a defendant also name FSC as a defendant and relate to our role as investment advisor to FSC. The outcome of any such proceedings may also materially adversely affect FSC’s business, financial condition, and/or operating results, and may continue without resolution for long periods of time. To the extent that FSC is negatively impacted by such proceedings, we could also be negatively impacted. See "— Management fees received from the Fifth Street BDCs comprise a significant portion of our revenues and a reduction in such fees, including from the termination of investment advisory agreements, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations."Risks Relating to Our IndustryDifficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value of our AUM, causing clients to withdraw funds and making it more difficult to raise additional capital for our funds, each of which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial condition.The fees we earn under our investment management fee agreements are typically based on the market value of and investment income earned on our fee-earning AUM. In addition, the prices of the securities held in the portfolios we manage may decline due to any number of factors beyond our control, including, among others, political uncertainty, acts of terrorism, a declining stock market or general economic downturn. In difficult market conditions, the pace of client redemptions or withdrawals from our investment strategies could accelerate if clients move assets to investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk. In addition, when the share price of the common stock of our BDCs is below the net asset value it is more difficult for our BDCs to raise capital. As of December 31, 2015, both FSC's and FSFR's common stock was trading below net asset value per share. See "— Risks Related to Our Business Development Companies and Other Funds — Regulations governing the operation of FSC and FSFR as BDCs affect their ability to raise, and the way in which they raise, additional capital." Any decrease in AUM from these or other sources would result in lower fees paid to us by our funds. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced and our business may be negatively affected.We are subject to extensive regulation.We are subject to extensive regulation. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the SEC, under the Federal securities laws (including the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Advisers Act, and the 1940 Act). In addition, the BDCs we manage are regulated by the SEC under the 1940 Act, and certain of their subsidiaries must comply with regulations adopted by the Small Business Administration, or SBA, in order to maintain their status as small business investment companies. We also must comply with NASDAQ rules and listing requirements and our BDCs are subject to NASDAQ rules and listing requirements. Finally, many of the activities that our BDCs or we engage in are subject to or potentially subject to (in the absence of certain exemptions that we rely on and must comply with) the jurisdiction and regulatory oversight of various other Federal regulatory agencies (including the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the Department of Labor, or DOL), various self-regulatory organizations (including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, and the National Futures Association, or NFA) and various state regulatory authorities.The various legal statutes and regulatory rules that we are subject to are extremely complex, and monitoring compliance with them can be a time-consuming and difficult task. For example, the Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisers, including record keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations 17and prohibitions on misleading or fraudulent activities. The Advisers Act also imposes an overriding fiduciary duty on investment advisers. The 1940 Act imposes similar obligations on BDCs, as well as additional detailed operational requirements that must be strictly adhered to by their investment advisers and other service providers. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Advisers Act, the 1940 Act or other regulatory agencies could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage.As we develop new investment strategies and businesses, we expect to become subject to additional regulations and oversight by regulatory agencies with which we do not currently have experience.Failure to comply with various laws and regulations applicable to our BDCs and ourselves could have a materially adverse impact on our business. These include the possibility of significant civil or criminal fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions (including the possibility of being barred from the industry) or the revocation of the registration of our subsidiary investment adviser. Moreover, even if the announcement of a sanction imposed against us, one of our subsidiaries or our personnel by a regulator is for a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to the sanction could harm our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our businesses in a number of ways, making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us. Additionally, the bringing of a significant enforcement action against us could cause irreparable damage to our business reputation and ability to remain in business, regardless of the merits of the claim against us. See "Business — Regulatory and Compliance Matters."The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to continual change and regulatory developments designed to increase oversight may adversely affect our business.The regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past, including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the adoption of many new rules and regulations in response. We believe there may be more regulatory changes in our industry, which would result in subjecting participants to significant additional regulation. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through customer protection and market conduct requirements. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients may adversely affect our business. Our ability to function in this environment depends on our ability to constantly monitor and promptly react to legislative and regulatory changes. For investment management firms in general, there have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that focus on the asset management industry. These inquiries already have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and new rules and regulations for investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities that might be beneficial to our stockholders. See "Business - Regulatory and Compliance Matters."In addition, as a result of the recent economic downturn, acts of serious fraud in the asset management industry and perceived lapses in regulatory oversight, U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities may increase regulatory oversight of our businesses. We may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. The enactment of new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business.We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure to reduce fees, or as a result of changes in our business mix, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure to reduce fees or as a result of changes in our business mix. For example, in January 2016, we and the FSC board of directors made a decision to permanently reduce the base management fee on FSC's total gross assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) from 2.00% to 1.75%. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the basis of our performance and not on the level of our investment fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a general trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that incentivize our investors to pay our fees. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure.The board of directors of each BDC we manage must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of our fees and can renegotiate them annually. Further fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.18The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us.We depend to a large extent on our network of relationships and on our reputation in order to attract and retain investors and clients. If an investor or client is not satisfied with our products or services, such dissatisfaction, especially communicated to others, may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses to them. If our investors and/or clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, unjust enrichment or fraud. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time, even after an action has been commenced. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could cause significant reputational harm to us and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our failure to comply with guidelines set by our clients, the boards of our BDCs or regulators could result in damage awards against us and a loss of assets under management, either of which could cause our earnings to decline.As an investment adviser, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to follow in the management of their portfolios. In addition, the boards of the BDCs we manage have established similar guidelines regarding the investment of assets in those funds. We are also required to invest the BDCs' assets in accordance with limitations under the 1940 Act and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to a client or an investor in a fund, as the case may be, who could seek to recover damages from us or could result in the client withdrawing its assets from our management or the fund terminating our management agreement. Any of these events could harm our reputation and cause our earnings to decline significantly.Risks Relating to Our Business Development Companies and Other FundsChanges in interest rates may affect the cost of capital and net investment income for our BDCs.Because our BDCs borrow to fund their investments, a portion of their net investment income may be dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which they borrow funds and the interest rate at which they invest these funds. Portions of the Fifth Street BDCs investment portfolio and borrowings will likely have floating interest rate components from time to time. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Fifth Street BDCs' net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce the Fifth Street BDCs' net investment income to the extent investments are at fixed rates. The Fifth Street BDCs may hedge against such interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments, such as interest rate swap agreements, futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, all necessary registrations (or exemptions from registration) with the CFTC. These activities may limit the Fifth Street BDCs' ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged borrowings. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Fifth Street BDCs, which would have a negative impact on our revenues, net income and cash flows.A significant portion of each of the Fifth Street BDCs' investment portfolios is and will continue to be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by each BDC's respective board of directors and, as a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of the portfolio investments of the Fifth Street BDCs.Under the 1940 Act, BDCs are required to carry portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by the board of directors of such BDC. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which the Fifth Street BDCs have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, each of the Fifth Street BDCs value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by their respective board of directors.Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of investments of the Fifth Street BDCs include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, a determination of fair value by a Fifth Street BDC may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. In addition, any investments that include original issue discount or PIK interest may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require ongoing judgments about the collectability of their deferred 19payments and the value of their underlying collateral. As a result, the value for certain assets may never be realized, which may materially adversely affect the Fifth Street BDCs' investment performance and its results of operations, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and cash flows.Certain of the claims in the legal proceedings described under the heading “Legal Proceedings” relate to the valuation of the Fifth Street BDC’s investment portfolios. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information concerning these lawsuits.Market values of debt instruments and publicly-traded securities that our funds hold as investments may be volatile.The market prices of debt instruments and publicly-traded securities held by the Fifth Street BDCs may be volatile and are likely to fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond their or our control, including actual or anticipated changes in the profitability of the issuers of such securities, general economic, social or political developments, changes in industry conditions, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, inflation and rapid fluctuations in inflation rates, the general state of the securities markets and other material events, such as significant management changes, financings, refinancings, securities issuances, acquisitions and dispositions. The value of publicly-traded securities in which the Fifth Street BDCs invest may be particularly volatile as a result of these factors. In addition, debt instruments that are held by our funds to maturity or for long terms must be "marked-to-market" periodically, and their values are therefore vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and the changes in the general state of the credit environment, notwithstanding their underlying performance. Changes in the values of these investments may adversely affect the Fifth Street BDCS' investment performance and its results of operations, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and cash flows.Substantially all of the assets of the Fifth Street BDCs are subject to security interests under secured credit facilities or, in the case of certain assets of FSC, subject to a superior claim over its stockholders by the U.S. Small Business Administration and, if a Fifth Street BDC defaults on its obligations under the facilities or with respect to SBA-guaranteed debentures, it may suffer adverse consequences, including foreclosure on its assets.As of December 31, 2015, substantially all of the assets of the Fifth Street BDCs were pledged as collateral under their credit facilities or, in the case of certain assets of FSC, subject to a superior claim over its stockholders by the SBA. If a Fifth Street BDC defaults on its obligations under these facilities or SBA-guaranteed debentures, as may be applicable, the lenders and/or the SBA may have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests or their superior claim. In such event, such Fifth Street BDC may be forced to sell its investments to raise funds to repay its outstanding borrowings in order to avoid foreclosure and these forced sales may be at times and at prices it would not consider advantageous. Moreover, such deleveraging of the BDC could significantly impair its ability to effectively operate its business in the manner in which it has historically operated. As a result, it could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the distributions that it has historically paid to its stockholders. In addition, if the lenders exercise their right to sell the assets pledged under such Fifth Street BDC's credit facilities, such sales may be completed at distressed sale prices, thereby diminishing or potentially eliminating the amount of cash available to the BDC after repayment of the amounts outstanding under the credit facilities, which could adversely affect the timing of payments to us.A failure on the part of the Fifth Street BDCs to maintain their qualifications as BDCs would significantly reduce their operating flexibility.Our BDCs are subject to complex rules under the 1940 Act, including rules that restrict them from engaging in transactions with affiliates, generally prohibit them from issuing and selling their common stock at a price below net asset value per share and from incurring indebtedness (including for this purpose, preferred stock), if their asset coverage, as calculated pursuant to the 1940 Act, equals less than 200% after such incurrence (subject, in the case of FSC, to certain exemptive relief granted with respect to its SBIC subsidiaries). Also under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than qualifying assets, as defined in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company's total assets. If either of the Fifth Street BDCs fails to continuously qualify as a BDC, such BDC might be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease its operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against such BDC, which could have a material adverse effect on us. See "Business — Our Investment Vehicles — Business Development Companies" and "Business — Regulatory and Compliance Matters — SEC Regulation."A Fifth Street BDC's failure to qualify or remain qualified as a RIC would subject it to U.S. federal income tax and would adversely affect its, and in turn, our financial results.Our BDCs have each elected to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under Subchapter M of the Code. A BDC treated as a RIC generally will not have to pay corporate-level federal income 20taxes on any net ordinary income and realized net capital gains that are distributed to its stockholders if it meets certain source-of-income, income distribution, asset diversification and other requirements imposed under the Code. If a BDC were to fail to meet one or more of these requirements and such BDC were unable to correct such failure or failures under applicable statutory cure provisions, such BDC generally would be required to pay corporate-level federal income taxes on its taxable net income, regardless of whether such net income were distributed to its stockholders. As a result, a loss of RIC status by one of our BDCs would have a negative impact on such BDC's business and financial results, and therefore a negative impact on our revenues, net income and cash flows. The RIC qualification status of our BDCs is actively monitored by our personnel and professional advisors, and it is expected that each BDC qualifies and will continue to qualify as a RIC. However, the RIC requirements require an analysis of a variety of facts about each BDC on an ongoing basis, and there can be no assurance that any of our BDCs will not cease to qualify as a RIC at some point in the future.Regulations governing the operation of FSC and FSFR as BDCs affect their ability to raise, and the way in which they raise, additional capital.As BDCs, FSC and FSFR operate as highly regulated businesses within the provisions of the 1940 Act. Many of the regulations governing BDCs have not been modernized in the light of recent securities laws amendments and restrict, among other things, leverage incurrence, co-investments and other transactions with other entities within Fifth Street and the Fifth Street Funds. The BDC industry has proposed certain legislation to address some of these issues, but there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted. Certain of our funds may be restricted from engaging in transactions with FSC and FSFR and their respective subsidiaries.As BDCs registered under the 1940 Act, FSC and FSFR may issue preferred stock, debt securities and borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities," up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, each of the Fifth Street BDCs is permitted to issue senior securities only in amounts such that its asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities (subject, in the case of FSC, to certain exemptive relief granted with respect to its SBIC subsidiaries). If the value of their assets decline, they may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, they may be required to sell a portion of their investments and, depending on the nature of their leverage, repay a portion of their indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. There is pending legislation to lessen the asset coverage test, but there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted.BDCs may issue and sell common stock at a price below net asset value per share only in limited circumstances, one of which is during the one-year period after stockholder approval. The stockholders of each of FSC and FSFR have, in the past, approved such a proposal. FSC and FSFR may ask their stockholders for such approvals from year to year. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. As of December 31, 2015, both FSC and FSFR's common stock was trading below net asset value per share. If FSC and FSFR are not able to grow through public or private offerings of their common stock, we may not be able to increase our AUM at such companies or the revenues earned from such companies.There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could adversely impact investment returns of the Fifth Street BDCs.Fifth Street Management has adopted, and the board of directors of each of FSC and FSFR has approved, an investment allocation policy that governs the allocation of investment opportunities among the investment funds managed by Fifth Street Management and its affiliates. To the extent an investment opportunity is appropriate for one of the BDCs or any other investment fund managed by our affiliates, and co-investment is not possible, Fifth Street Management will adhere to its investment allocation policy in order to determine to which entity to allocate the opportunity. Any such opportunity will be allocated first to the entity whose investment strategy is the most consistent with the opportunity being allocated, and second, if the terms of the opportunity are consistent with more than one entity's investment strategy, on an alternating basis. Although our investment professionals will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, either of FSC, FSFR or another fund that we manage could be adversely affected to the extent investment opportunities are allocated among the investment vehicles managed or sponsored by, or affiliated with, our executive officers, directors and Fifth Street Management. There is no guarantee that Fifth Street Management will make the correct decision in such allocation.The 1940 Act prohibits the Fifth Street BDCs from making certain negotiated co-investments with affiliates, unless such BDC receives an order from the SEC permitting it to do so, or in accordance with applicable regulatory guidance and interpretations. Fifth Street Management and certain of its affiliates received an exemptive order from the SEC on September 9, 2014 that permits each of the Fifth Street BDCs to co-invest with other funds managed by Fifth Street Management or its affiliates in negotiated transactions in a manner consistent with its investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements (including the terms and conditions of the exemptive order).Fifth Street Management's investment allocation policy is also designed to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest associated with the allocation of investment opportunities if one of the Fifth Street BDCs is able to co-invest, either pursuant to 21SEC interpretive positions or the exemptive order, with other funds managed by Fifth Street Management or its affiliates. Generally, under the investment allocation policy, if a Fifth Street BDC is permitted to co-invest pursuant to the exemptive order, co-investments will be allocated pursuant to the conditions of the exemptive order. If a Fifth Street BDC is able to co-invest pursuant to SEC interpretive positions, generally, under the investment allocation policy, a portion of each opportunity that is appropriate for such BDC and any affiliated fund will be offered to such BDC and such other eligible accounts as determined by Fifth Street Management and generally based on asset class, fund size and liquidity, among other factors. If there is a sufficient amount of securities to satisfy all participants, the securities will be allocated among the participants in accordance with their order size and if there is an insufficient amount of securities to satisfy all participants, the securities will be allocated pro rata based on each participating party's capital available for investment in the asset class being allocated, up to the amount proposed to be invested by each. Fifth Street Management seeks to treat all clients fairly and equitably such that none receive preferential treatment vis-à-vis the others over time, in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duty to each of them; however, in some instances, especially in instances of limited liquidity, the factors may not result in pro rata allocations or may result in situations where certain funds receive allocations where others do not. Our funds' investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and our funds could lose all or part of their investments.The companies in which our funds invest are typically highly leveraged, and, in most cases, our funds' investments in such companies are not rated by any rating agency. If such investments were rated, we believe that they would likely receive a rating from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization of below investment grade (i.e., below BBB- by S&P or Baa by Moody's). Exposure to below investment grade securities involves certain risks, and those securities are viewed as having predominately speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Investing in small and mid-sized companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies: •may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that our funds hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of our funds' portfolio companies that they may have obtained in connection with their investments, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of the equity components of our funds' investments;•may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or significant customer concentrations than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;•are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our funds' portfolio companies and, in turn, on our funds;•generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and•generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. If our funds are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, our funds may not make a fully informed investment decision, and as a result may lose part or all their investment. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of the Fifth Street BDC's portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our funds' investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our funds' indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources.An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies.Our funds invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, including typically a lack of audited financial statements and ratings by third parties. Our funds must therefore rely on their adviser's ability to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks of investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information may not be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If our funds are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, our funds may not make a fully informed investment decision, and our funds may lose money on our investments. These factors could affect the investment return of our funds and, in turn, affect our results of operations.22If our funds make unsecured debt investments, they may lack adequate protection in the event their portfolio companies become distressed or insolvent and they will likely experience a lower recovery than more senior debtholders in the event their portfolio companies defaults on their indebtedness.Our funds have made, and may in the future make, unsecured debt investments in portfolio companies. Unsecured debt investments are unsecured and junior to other indebtedness of the portfolio company. As a consequence, the holder of an unsecured debt investment may lack adequate protection in the event the portfolio company becomes distressed or insolvent and will likely experience a lower recovery than more senior debtholders in the event the portfolio company defaults on its indebtedness. In addition, unsecured debt investments of small and mid-sized companies are often highly illiquid and in adverse market conditions may experience steep declines in valuation even if they are fully performing. These factors could affect the investment return of our funds and, in turn, affect our results of operations.The lack of liquidity in our funds' investments may adversely affect their businesses.Our funds invest, and will continue to invest, in companies whose securities are not publicly-traded, and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly-traded securities. In fact, all of our funds' assets may be invested in illiquid securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for our funds to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if any our funds are required to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, such fund may realize significantly less than the value at which it had previously recorded these investments. Our funds' investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our funds' investments may make it difficult for our funds to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, our funds may suffer losses, which could affect our results of operations.Our funds may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in their portfolio companies.After an initial investment in a portfolio company, our funds may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase their investments through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that our funds will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our funds' part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for such fund to increase its participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment, any of which could affect our results of operations.Our funds' portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the funds' investments in such companies.Our funds invest primarily in first lien, second lien and subordinated debt issued by small and mid-sized companies. Our funds' portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which our funds invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payments of interest or principal on or before the dates on which our funds are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which our funds invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our funds' investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before our funds receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to our funds. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which our funds invest, such funds would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Any of these circumstances could indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We generally do not, and do not expect to, control our portfolio companies.Our funds do not, and do not expect to, control most of their portfolio companies, even though our funds may have board representation or board observation rights, and our funds' debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, our funds are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which they invest may make business decisions with which our funds disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our funds' interests as a debt investor. Due to the lack of liquidity for our funds' investments in non-traded companies, our funds may not be able to dispose of their interests in portfolio companies as readily as such funds would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our funds' portfolio holdings, having a negative effect on our results of operations.23Defaults by our funds' portfolio companies would harm our funds' operating results.A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by our funds or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that our funds hold. Such funds may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Any of these circumstances could indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Dependence on leverage by certain of our funds and by our funds' portfolio companies subjects us to volatility and contractions in the debt financing markets and could adversely affect our funds' ability to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments.FSC, FSFR, our CLOs and FSOF and our funds' portfolio companies currently rely on the use of leverage, and our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on investments will depend on our ability to access sufficient sources of indebtedness at attractive rates. While the funds mentioned above are our only funds that currently rely on the use of leverage, certain of our other funds may in the future rely on the use of leverage. If our funds or the companies in which our funds invest raise capital in the structured credit, leveraged loan and high yield bond markets, the results of their operations may suffer if such markets experience dislocations, contractions or volatility. Any such events could adversely impact the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to an overall weakening of the U.S. and global economies. Any economic downturn could adversely affect the financial resources of our funds and their investments (in particular those investments that depend on credit from third parties or that otherwise participate in the credit markets) and their ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, outstanding debt when due. Moreover, these events could affect the terms of available debt financing with, for example, higher interest rates, higher equity requirements and/or more restrictive covenants.The absence of available sources of sufficient debt financing for extended periods of time or an increase in either the general levels of interest rates or in the risk spread demanded by sources of indebtedness would make it more expensive to finance those investments. Certain investments may also be financed through borrowings on fund-level debt facilities, which may or may not be available for a refinancing at the end of their respective terms. Finally, the interest payments on the indebtedness used to finance our funds' investments are generally deductible expenses for income tax purposes, subject to limitations under applicable tax law and policy. Any change in such tax law or policy to eliminate or substantially limit these income tax deductions, as has been discussed from time to time in various jurisdictions, would reduce the after-tax rates of return on the affected investments, which may have an adverse impact on our businesses and financial results.Similarly, our funds' portfolio companies regularly utilize the corporate debt markets to obtain additional financing for their operations. Our funds' portfolio companies are typically highly leveraged. Those that have credit ratings are typically non-investment grade and those that do not have credit ratings would likely be non-investment grade if they were rated. If the credit markets render such financing difficult to obtain or more expensive, this may negatively impact the operating performance of those portfolio companies and, therefore, the investment returns of our funds. In addition, if the markets make it difficult or impossible to refinance debt that is maturing in the near term, some of our funds' portfolio companies may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and may be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our funds may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs. Substantially all of the investments held by our CLOs are financed by the issuance of senior secured and subordinated notes. Below is a summary of leverage utilized by our BDCs as of December 31, 2015 (shown in thousands): Fifth Street Fund Total Debt Net Asset Value Total Debt as a % of Net Asset Value BDC Asset Coverage RatioFSC (1) $1,154,840 $1,263,114 91.4% 235.95%FSFR $291,558 $334,661 87.1% 214.78%____________________(1) FSC has received exemptive relief from the SEC to exclude debentures issued by the Small Business Administration from the definition of senior securities in the 200% asset coverage test under the 1940 Act, which allows greater flexibility under the test.The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss to investors. A fund may borrow money from time to time to make investments or may enter into derivative transactions with counterparties that have embedded leverage. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by returns on such investments and may be lost, and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated, in the event of a decline in the market value of such investments. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund's net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if investment results 24fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund's net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. In addition, as BDCs regulated under the 1940 Act, FSC and FSFR are each permitted to issue senior securities in amounts such that its asset coverage ratio equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. Each of FSC's and FSFR's ability to pay dividends will be restricted if its asset coverage ratio falls below at least 200% and any amounts that it uses to service its indebtedness are not available for dividends to its common stockholders. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of fixed rate debt investments that our funds make. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Relating to our Class A Common StockThe market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock has been extremely volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2015, the sales price of Class A common stock has fluctuated from a low of $3.25 to a high of $14.50 per share. In addition, the trading volume on our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock, include:•variations in our quarterly operating results;•failure to meet our earnings estimates;•publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry, or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A common stock;•departures of our Principals or additions/departures of other key personnel;•adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future;•actions by stockholders;•material changes in market valuations of similar companies;•actual or anticipated poor performance in our underlying investment strategies;•changes or proposed changes in laws or regulation, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters;•adverse publicity about the investment management industry, generally, or individual scandals specifically;•litigation and governmental investigations; and•general market and economic conditions.The market price of our Class A common stock may decline due to the potential for future sales of our Class A common stock on the exchange of Holdings LP Interests.The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock by us or the exchange of Holdings LP Interests by the Holdings Limited Partners (such exchanges to be permitted at specified quarterly exchange dates beginning November 4, 2016), or the perception that such sales or exchanges could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate.As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 5,798,614 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding. All of the 5,798,614 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act by persons other than our "affiliates."Pursuant to the terms of an Exchange Agreement that we entered into at the time of our initial public offering, the Holdings Limited Partners may from time to time, beginning two years after our initial public offering, exchange their Holdings LP Interests for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. As of December 31, 2015, the Holdings Limited Partners beneficially own 44,000,000 Holdings LP Interests in the aggregate, which will be exchangeable for 44,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock in the aggregate, subject to certain limits.25Pursuant to a resale and registration rights agreement with the Holdings Limited Partners, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to file registration statements from time to time for the sale of the shares of our Class A common stock, including Class A common stock which is deliverable upon exchange of Holdings LP Interests.In addition, as of December 31, 2015, 14,333,718 shares of Class A common stock are reserved for issuance under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan. From January 1, 2016, and ending on and including January 1, 2024, the foregoing share reserve amount may be increased by a number of shares of our Class A common stock equal to the positive difference, if any, of (x) 15% of the aggregate number of Class A common stock (including partnership interests exchangeable into Class A common stock) outstanding on the last day of the prior year minus (y) the total number of shares of Class A common stock available for issuance on such last day (or such lesser amount as determined by the Compensation Committee). As of December 31, 2015, we have options outstanding with respect to 5,562,866 shares of our Class A common stock and unvested restricted stock units with respect to 1,201,794 shares of Class A common stock. Upon the exercise of outstanding options and vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, shares of our Class A common stock will be issued and become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual restrictions.We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.The requirements of being a public entity and generating growth may strain our resources.As a newly public entity, we are subject to the rules and requirements of the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and NASDAQ, each of which imposes additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. For example, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which is discussed below.We have been and will continue to be implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In addition, generating growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to identify new professionals to join the firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and, among other things, additional directors' and officers' liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements of the SEC, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing, tax and legal fees and similar expenses.We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods.A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We identified the following control deficiencies, each of which has been determined to be a material weakness: •We did not maintain sufficient accounting resources with technical accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of U.S. GAAP and for effective preparation and review of our financial statements.•We did not design and maintain effective controls to analyze complex and non-routine transactions or adequately review the accounting and/or disclosure for these transactions. This material weakness was identified as the primary cause of errors relating to the treatment of stock-based compensation and liabilities associated with existing membership units, and the consequent improper recording and improper disclosure of certain equity transactions, as well as incorrectly recording expenses reimbursable by our funds on a net basis. •We did not design and maintain sufficient controls to evaluate information provided from and accounting conclusions reached by FSC CT LLC, the administrator of the Fifth Street BDCs and our wholly-owned subsidiary, in the determination of Part I fee revenue. This material weakness was identified as the primary cause of the revision relating to the Part I fees, and the consequent improper recording of fee revenue. 26These control deficiencies resulted in audit adjustments to the Company’s interim and annual financial statements during the year ended December 31, 2015. Additionally, these control deficiencies could result in misstatements of the stock-based compensation and liabilities associated with existing membership units, certain equity transactions and Part I fee revenue that would not be prevented or detected. Because of the material weaknesses described above, management concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).We have taken and will take a number of actions to remediate these material weaknesses including, but not limited to, adding senior experienced accounting and financial personnel, reallocating existing internal resources and retaining third-party consultants to help enhance our internal control over financial reporting following reviews of our accounting and finance function conducted by members of senior management. Management is committed to improving our internal control processes and believes that the measures described above should be sufficient to remediate the identified material weaknesses and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you, however, that the steps taken will remediate such weaknesses, nor can we be certain of whether additional actions will be required or the costs of any such actions. As of December 31, 2015, these material weaknesses have not been remediated. We may need to take additional measures to fully mitigate these issues, and the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or other material weaknesses or deficiencies will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our Class A common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition. We are an emerging growth company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our Class A common stock may be less attractive to investors.We are an emerging growth company and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404, a provision allowing us to provide fewer years of financial statements and other financial data and reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements and the exemption from the auditor attestation requirement available to emerging growth companies. We will remain an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock, and the price of our Class A common stock may be more volatile.We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term shareholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock.In May 2015, our board of directors authorized us to repurchase up to $20.0 million of our Class A common stock. Although our board of directors has authorized this program, we are not obligated to purchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. As of December 31, 2015, we repurchased approximately $1.8 million of our Class A common stock under the share repurchase program. The share repurchase program could affect the price of our Class A common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. For example, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the price of our Class A common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our Class A common stock may decline below the levels at which we determine to repurchase our Class A common stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. The amount of stock we are permitted to repurchase is also limited by the terms of our Credit Facility.27We are controlled by the Principals, whose interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.As of December 31, 2015, the Principals hold approximately 97.4% of the combined voting power of our common stock. So long as the Principals continue to hold, directly or indirectly, shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, the Principals are able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and have significant control over our management and the Principals' control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The interests of the Principals may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and the Principals may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders.We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on certain of the "controlled company" exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies.Under NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As of December 31, 2015, the Principals held approximately 97.4% of the combined voting power of our common stock. As such we are eligible to take advantage of this "controlled company" exemption. A "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We intend to continue to take advantage of these controlled company exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock.Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. Risks Relating to Our StructureOur ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law.We currently intend to pay cash dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, decrease the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Fifth Street Holdings to make distributions to its members, including us. However, its ability to make such distributions will be subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable provisions of Delaware law which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members, its compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, and its other agreements with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in the corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of its cash obligations, including the payment of dividends or distributions.Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, we may only pay dividends from legally available surplus or, if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Surplus is defined as the excess of a company's total assets over the sum of its total liabilities plus the par value of its outstanding capital stock. Under the DGCL, our Board of Directors can use the fair value of assets and liabilities, rather than book value, in making this determination. Under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Limited Partnership Act, Fifth Street Holdings may not make a distribution to a partner if, after the distribution, all its liabilities, other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities for which the recourse of 28creditors is limited to specific property of the partnership, would exceed the fair value of our assets. If Fifth Street Holdings were to make such an impermissible distribution, any limited partner who received a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution was in violation of the Delaware Limited Partnership Act would be liable to Fifth Street Holdings for the amount of the distribution for three years. See "Item 5 — Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Dividend Policy."Our ability to pay taxes and expenses may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law.As a holding company, we will have no material assets other than our ownership of partnership interests of Fifth Street Holdings and will have no independent means of generating revenue. Fifth Street Holdings will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, taxable income will be allocated to its partners, including us, pro rata according to the number of partnership interests each owns. Accordingly, we will incur U.S. federal income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Fifth Street Holdings and will also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause Fifth Street Holdings to distribute cash to its members, including us. However, its ability to make such distributions will be subject to various limitations as set forth in the preceding risk factor. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities to fund our operations, we may have to borrow funds and thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We will be required to pay the TRA Recipients most of the tax benefit of any depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with the exchanges of Holdings LP Interests.Any taxable exchanges by the TRA Recipients of Holdings LP Interests for shares of our Class A common stock and payments under the tax receivable agreement are expected to result in increases in the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of Fifth Street Holdings connected with such Holdings LP Interests. The increase in tax basis is expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge.The tax receivable agreement that we entered into with the TRA Recipients generally provides that we will pay them 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that we realize (or, under certain circumstances, are deemed to realize) as a result of these increases in tax basis. Assuming no material relevant tax law changes and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize the full tax benefits of the increased depreciation and amortization of our assets, we expect that the future payments to the TRA Recipients in respect of the sale of Holdings LP Interests will aggregate to $45.5 million. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending on a number of factors, including the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the purchase, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. Similarly, the tax receivable agreement payments related to the future exchanges will vary based on the timing of the exchanges, the price of the Class A common stock at the time of the exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. The tax receivable agreement payments related to future exchanges have not been included in the above amounts. We expect that, as a result of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Fifth Street Holdings attributable to the exchanged Holdings LP Interests, the payments that we may make to the TRA Recipients will be substantial.Moreover, if we exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we will be obligated to make an early termination payment to the TRA Recipients, or their transferees, based upon the net present value (based upon certain assumptions in the tax receivable agreement, including the assumption that we would have enough taxable income in the future to fully utilize the tax benefit resulting from any increased tax basis that results from an exchange) of all payments that would be required to be paid by us under the tax receivable agreement. If certain change of control events were to occur, we would be obligated to make payments to the TRA Recipients using certain assumptions and deemed events similar to those used to calculate an early termination payment.We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if the basis increases described above were successfully challenged by the IRS or another taxing authority. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.29