Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our capitalization. The risks described below are considered to be the most material. However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Structure The consolidated financial information of Liberty Broadband included in this annual report is not necessarily representative of Liberty Broadband’s future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows nor does it reflect what Liberty Broadband’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Because the historical consolidated financial information of Liberty Broadband included in this annual report largely reflects the historical results of TruePosition and other businesses, assets and liabilities of Liberty, it is not representative of Liberty Broadband’s future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows, nor does it reflect what Liberty Broadband’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company, pursuing independent strategies, during the periods presented, especially in light of the fact that the future results of operations will be significantly affected by the results of Charter. We are a holding company, and we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to service our financial obligations or meet our other commitments. Our ability to meet our current and future financial obligations, including to make debt service obligations under the Margin Loan Agreements (defined below), and other contractual commitments depends upon our ability to access cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from the operating activities of our wholly-owned subsidiary TruePosition, any dividends and interest we may receive from our investments, available funds under the Margin Loan Agreements (which as of December 31, 2014 was equal $28 million) and proceeds from any asset sales we may undertake in the future. The proceeds from the rights offering, which closed in the first quarter of 2015, is our current primary source of cash. In addition, the ability of our only operating subsidiary to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us depends on its operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions to which it may be or may become subject. We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates from its operating activities. Charter generated approximately $2,158 million, $1,876 million and $1,737 million of cash from its operations during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Charter uses the cash it generates from its operations primarily to fund its business operations and to service its debt and other financial obligations. We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates unless Charter declares a dividend on its capital stock payable in cash, repurchases any or all of its outstanding shares of capital stock for cash (subject to any contractual restrictions on our ability to participate in any such repurchase) or otherwise distributes or makes payments to its stockholders, including us. Historically, Charter has not paid any dividends on its capital stock or, with limited exceptions, otherwise distributed cash to its stockholders and instead has used all of its available cash in the expansion of its business and to service its debt obligations. Covenants in Charter’s existing debt instruments also I-24 Table of Contents restrict the payment of dividends and cash distributions to stockholders. We expect that Charter will continue to apply its available cash to the expansion of its business. Our company may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. In connection with the Broadband Spin-Off, a wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty Broadband (“BroadbandSPV”) entered into two margin loan agreements (the “Margin Loan Agreements”) pursuant to which BroadbandSPV borrowed $320 million prior to the completion of the Broadband Spin-Off and we had $80 million available to be drawn immediately following the Broadband Spin-Off, of which approximately $52 million was used to fund the exercise of our warrants to acquire additional shares of Charter common stock following the Broadband Spin-Off. The obligations under the Margin Loan Agreements are guaranteed solely by our company and are secured by a portion of our ownership interest in Charter. Such equity interests are held through BroadbandSPV. The terms of the Margin Loan Agreements limit our company’s ability to secure additional financing on favorable terms, and our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations will depend upon the operating performance of our subsidiary, TruePosition, the value of our investment in Charter, prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business or market opportunities as they arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. As discussed above, in connection with the Broadband Spin-Off, BroadbandSPV entered into the Margin Loan Agreements, pursuant to which BroadbandSPV has borrowed $372 million. As a result of this significant indebtedness, our company may: · Experience increased vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · Be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; · Be handicapped in its ability to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for its businesses; and · Be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates with respect to any variable rate portion of its indebtedness. In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. For additional limitations on our company’s ability to potentially service our direct debt obligations, see “We are a holding company, and we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to service our financial obligations or meet our other commitments” and “We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates from its operating activities” above. The agreements that govern our current and future indebtedness may contain various affirmative and restrictive covenants that will limit our discretion in the operation of our business. As discussed above, in connection with the Broadband Spin-Off, BroadbandSPV entered into the Margin Loan Agreements, pursuant to which BroadbandSPV borrowed $372 million and has $28 million available to be drawn. The Margin I-25 Table of Contents Loan Agreements contain various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness by BroadbandSPV, enter into financing arrangements with respect to the portion of stock of Charter pledged to secure the loans under the Margin Loan Agreements, and cause BroadbandSPV to enter into unrelated businesses or otherwise conduct business other than owning common stock of Charter and other assets as permitted under the Margin Loan documents. We may also enter into certain other indebtedness arrangements in the future. The instruments governing such indebtedness, often contain covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on our ability to incur more debt, exceed specified leverage ratios, pay dividends, make distributions, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets. Any failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have no operating history as a separate company upon which you can evaluate our performance. We do not have an operating history as a separate public company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business strategy will be successful on a long-term basis. We may not be able to grow our businesses as planned and may not be profitable. We rely on Charter to provide us with the financial information that we use in accounting for our ownership interest in Charter as well as information regarding Charter that we include in our public filings. We account for our approximately 26% ownership interest in Charter using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, in our financial statements we record our share of Charter’s net income or loss. Within the meaning of U.S. accounting rules, we rely on Charter to provide us with financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which we use in the application of the equity method. We also rely on Charter to provide us with the information regarding their company that we include in our public filings. In addition, we cannot change the way in which Charter reports its financial results or require Charter to change its internal controls over financial reporting. No assurance can be given that Charter will provide us with the information necessary to enable us to complete our public filings on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, any material misstatements or omissions in the information Charter provides to us or publicly files could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements and filing status under federal securities laws. We may become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not believe we are currently subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, because our investment in Charter enables us to exercise significant influence over Charter. We have substantial involvement in the management and affairs of Charter, including through our board nominees. Liberty nominated four of Charter’s ten current directors, and we have assumed Liberty’s nomination right under the terms of the Charter Stockholders Agreement. If, however, our investment in Charter were deemed to become passive (such as in the event that our equity interest were significantly diluted, including in connection with the Comcast Transactions, and our nominees ceased to serve as directors of Charter), we could become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In such event, we would be required to register as an investment company, which could result in significant registration and compliance costs, could require changes to our corporate governance structure and financial reporting, could restrict our activities going forward and could adversely impact our existing capital structure. For example, we would not be permitted to keep our dual class capital structure. Our restated charter includes a provision that would enable us, at the option of our board of directors, to automatically convert each outstanding share of our Series B common stock into one share of our Series A common stock at such time as we have outstanding less than 20% of the total number of shares of our Series B common stock issued in the Broadband Spin-Off. In addition, if we were to become inadvertently subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, any violation of this act could subject us to material adverse consequences, including potentially significant regulatory penalties and the possibility that our contracts would be deemed unenforceable. I-26 Table of Contents Factors Relating to Charter The following risks relate specifically to our equity affiliate Charter. If any of these risks were realized, they could have a material adverse effect on the value of our equity interests in Charter, which could negatively impact our stock price and our financial prospects. Charter has a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect its financial health and ability to react to changes in its business. Charter has a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in each of its debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2014, Charter’s total principal amount of debt was approximately $21.1 billion including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Comcast Transactions. As a result of this significant indebtedness, Charter may: · Be impacted in its ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all; · Be vulnerable to interest rate increases because approximately 28% of its borrowings is, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest; · Be exposed to increased interest expense to the extent it refinances existing debt with higher cost debt; · Be required to dedicate a significant portion of its cash flow from operating activities to make payments on its debt, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses; · Experience limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in Charter’s business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; · Be placed at a disadvantage compared to its competitors that have proportionately less debt; and · Be adversely affected by Charter’s relationship with customers and suppliers. If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that Charter faces will intensify. The agreements and instruments governing Charter’s debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect Charter’s ability to operate its business, as well as significantly affect its liquidity. Charter’s credit facilities and the indentures governing its debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect Charter’s ability to operate its business, liquidity and results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, Charter and its subsidiaries’ ability to: · incur additional debt; · repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; · issue equity; · make certain investments or acquisitions; I-27 Table of Contents · pay dividends or make other distributions; · dispose of assets or merge; · enter into related party transactions; and · grant liens and pledge assets. Additionally, the Charter Communications Operating, LLC (“Charter Operating”) credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant. The breach of any covenants or obligations in its indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing Charter’s long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in Charter’s subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Charter depends on generating sufficient cash flow to fund its debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations. Charter is dependent on its cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund its debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. Charter’s ability to service its debt and to fund its planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on its ability to continue to generate cash flow and its access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity sources at the applicable obligor. Charter’s ability to continue to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: · its ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in its markets and to maintain and grow its customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures; · the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, digital subscriber line “DSL” providers, video provided over the Internet and providers of advertising over the Internet; · general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector; · Charter’s ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents); · the development and deployment of new products and technologies; and · the effects of governmental regulation on its business or potential business combination transactions. Some of these factors are beyond Charter’s control. If it is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or it is unable to access additional liquidity sources, Charter may not be able to service and repay its debt, operate its business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund its other liquidity and capital needs. I-28 Table of Contents Restrictions in Charter’s subsidiaries’ debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to Charter and its subsidiaries that are debt issuers. Charter’s primary assets are its equity interests in its subsidiaries. Charter’s operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to their debt issuer holding companies for payments on its notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise. Charter Operating’s ability to make distributions to Charter CCOH Safari, LLC (“CCOH Safari”) or CCO Holdings, its other primary debt issuers, to service debt obligations is subject to its compliance with the terms of its credit facilities, and restrictions under applicable law. Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the “DLLCA”), Charter’s subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has “surplus” as defined in the DLLCA. Under fraudulent transfer laws, Charter’s subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; · the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they became due. While Charter believes that its relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, these subsidiaries may become insolvent in the future. Charter’s direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers under the CCO Safari credit facility and the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities. CCOH Safari and CCO Holdings are each an obligor under their respective senior notes. As of December 31, 2014, Charter’s total principal amount of debt was approximately $21.1 billion, including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Comcast Transactions. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of its subsidiaries, that subsidiary’s assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event: · the lenders under Charter Operating’s credit facilities, whose interests are secured by substantially all of Charter’s operating assets, and all holders of other debt of CCOH Safari, CCO Holdings, CCO Safari and Charter Operating, will have the right to be paid in full before Charter from any of its subsidiaries’ assets; and · CCH I, LLC “CCH I”, the holder of preferred membership interests in Charter’s subsidiary, CC VIII, LLC “CC VIII” would have a claim on a portion of CC VIII’s assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of CCO Holdings’ and CCOH Safari’s outstanding notes. All of Charter’s outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions. It may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill its obligations under its indebtedness following a change of control, which would place Charter in default under the applicable debt instruments. Charter may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill its obligations under its notes and its credit facilities following a change of control. Under the indentures governing Charter’s notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, the debt issuer is required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding notes. However, Charter may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the applicable notes and Charter I-29 Table of Contents Operating is limited in its ability to make distributions or other payments to any debt issuer to fund any required repurchase. In addition, a change of control under the Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities. Because such credit facilities are obligations of Charter Operating, the credit facilities would have to be repaid before Charter Operating’s assets could be available to CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari to repurchase their notes. Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari in default under its notes. The failure of Charter’s subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default. Charter operates in a very competitive business environment, which affects its ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect its business, operations and financial results. The industry in which Charter operates is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, Charter competes against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of its competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale. Charter could also face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories. Charter’s principal competitors for video services throughout its territory are direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers. The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and DISH Network. Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting has had an adverse impact on Charter’s ability to retain customers. DBS companies have also expanded their activities in the multi-dwelling unit (“MDU”) market. Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with Charter, and it expects they will increasingly do so in the future. Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to Charter’s. In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services (fiber optic service “FiOS”) offer speeds as high as or higher than Charter’s. In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies. Based on its internal estimates, Charter believes that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 30% and 4%, respectively, of its estimated passings and it has experienced customer losses in these areas. AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market. AT&T has publicly stated that it expects to roll out its video product beyond the territories currently served although it is unclear where and to what extent. When AT&T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in Charter’s market areas, Charter has seen a decrease in its video revenue as AT&T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products. Additionally, in May 2014, AT&T announced its intention to acquire DirectTV, the nation’s largest DBS provider. If completed, this transaction will create an even larger competitor for Charter’s video services that will have the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings. Due to consumer electronic innovations, content owners are allowing consumers to watch Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices, some without charging a fee to access the content. Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. For example, online video services continue to offer consumers alternatives including Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple. Recently, HBO and CBS announced plans to sell their programming direct to consumers over the Internet. DISH has also announced Sling TV which will include ESPN among other programming, I-30 Table of Contents and Sony has announced PlayStation Vue which is expected to include 75 TV channels to be launched in the first quarter of 2015. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from Charter, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising. With respect to Charter’s Internet access services, Charter faces competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies, primarily AT&T and Verizon, and other providers of DSL, fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-home services. DSL service competes with its Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than its Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds Charter offers. Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match Charter’s Internet speeds. Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than Charter’s current Internet speeds. In addition, in many of its markets, DSL providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates. These service bundles offer customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as Charter’s bundles. Continued growth in the residential voice business faces risks. The competitive landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; Charter faces competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies. Further, Charter faces increasing competition for residential voice services as more consumers in the United States are replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service. Charter expects to continue to price its voice product aggressively as part of its triple play strategy which could negatively impact its revenue from voice services to the extent it does not increase volume. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild. Overbuilds could adversely affect Charter’s growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition. Charter is aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting certain of its markets, however, it is unable to predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur. In order to attract new customers, from time to time Charter makes promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service. These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also may require it to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment. Customers who subscribe to Charter’s services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period. A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on Charter’s business. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of Charter’s competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with Charter. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, Charter’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet. If Charter does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, its competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. Charter’s services may not allow them to compete effectively. Competition may reduce its expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of Charter franchises and goodwill and its ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements. I-31 Table of Contents Charter’s exposure to the economic conditions of its current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect its cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Charter is exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of its current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of its customers and their financial ability to purchase Charter’s products. If there were a general economic downturn, Charter may experience increased cancellations by its customers or to unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased. These events have adversely affected Charter in the past, and may adversely affect Charter’s cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downtown were to occur. In addition, Charter is susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which it relies to provide products and services or to which it outsources certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect Charter’s customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of Charter’s vendors or third parties upon which it relies. Any interruption in the services provided by its vendors or by third parties could adversely affect Charter’s cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. Charter faces risks inherent in its commercial business. Charter may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its service offerings to businesses. Charter sells Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video and business voice services to businesses and has increased its focus on growing this business. In order to grow its commercial business, Charter expects to continue to invest in technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business. Commercial business customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services. If Charter’s efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of its commercial services business would be limited. Charter depends on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of its commercial business. As a result, its ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited. If Charter is unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, its commercial business could be adversely affected. Finally, Charter expects advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, Charter is unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on its voice and commercial businesses and operations. Programming costs are rising at a much faster rate than wages or inflation, and Charter may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to its customers, its increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect its cash flow and operating margins. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, Charter’s largest operating expense item. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming. Charter expects programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, additional programming, including new sports services, out-of-home or non-linear programming and attempts by programmers to replace advertising revenue they are losing to online marketing options and as a result of declining viewership ratings. The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to its customers has had an adverse impact on Charter’s cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product. Charter has programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2015. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms. To the extent that Charter is unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that it believes are reasonable, Charter may be forced to remove such programming channels from its line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers. I-32 Table of Contents Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase Charter’s programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. In some cases, Charter carries stations under short-term arrangements while it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require Charter to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make its video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase Charter’s programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity it has available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on its business and financial results. Charter’s inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit its ability to compete effectively. Charter’s business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive. Charter may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of its customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth. The implementation of its network-based user interface, Spectrum Guide®, and downloadable security necessary for Charter’s Worldbox set-top box strategy, may ultimately be unsuccessful or more expensive than anticipated. In order to realize the benefits of its Worldbox technology, Charter must implement its downloadable conditional access security in its regional video networks. Charter’s inability to maintain and expand its upgraded systems and provide advanced services such as a state of the art user interface in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect its ability to attract and retain customers. Consequently, Charter’s growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Charter depends on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if it is unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, its ability to offer services could be impaired, and Charter’s growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Charter depends on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of its services. Charter obtains these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services it desires. Some of Charter’s hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent its sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services it needs in a timely manner, at its specifications and at reasonable prices, Charter’s ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay its ability to serve its customers. These events could materially and adversely affect Charter’s ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on its operations, business, financial results and financial condition. A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. Charter’s cable systems have historically been restricted to using one of two proprietary conditional access security systems, which it believes has limited the number of manufacturers producing set-top boxes for such systems. As an alternative, Charter has developed a conditional access security system which may be downloaded into set-top boxes with specified features that could be provided by a variety of manufacturers. Charter refers to its specified set top box as its Worldbox. In order to realize the benefits of its Worldbox technology, Charter must implement a conditional access security system. Charter cannot provide I-33 Table of Contents assurances that this implementation will ultimately be successful or completed in the expected timeframe or at the expected budget. Charter further depends on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in its operating activities. Any of its intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit Charter to continue to use certain intellectual property, which could result in discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm, it incurring substantial monetary liability or being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. Various events could disrupt Charter’s networks, information systems or properties and could impair its operating activities and negatively impact its reputation. Network and information systems technologies are critical to Charter’s operating activities, as well as its customers’ access to its services. Charter may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities have become more common in industry overall. If directed at Charter or technologies upon which it depends, these activities could have adverse consequences on its network and its customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to its or its customers’ equipment and data. Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in Charter’s information technology systems and networks, and in its vendors’ systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. System failures and network disruptions may also be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions or telecommunications failures. If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage Charter’s reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service its customers and protect its network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and Charter’s disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect Charter’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. For tax purposes, Charter could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit its ability to use its tax loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2014, Charter had approximately $9.5 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $3.3 billion. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through 2034. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, Charter had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $321 million. State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2015 through 2034. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized. Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset its future taxable income. In the past, Charter has experienced “ownership changes” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by “5-percent stockholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such “5-percent stockholders” at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, Charter is subject to an annual limitation on the use I-34 Table of Contents of its loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first "ownership change" and those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second "ownership change." The limitation on Charter’s ability to use its loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce its ability to use a portion of its loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in Charter being required to make material cash tax payments. Charter’s ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on its liquidity or its ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. If Charter were to experience a third ownership change in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by its “5-percent stockholders,” new issuances or redemptions of its stock, certain acquisitions of its stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in its “5-percent stockholders”), Charter’s ability to use its loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations. Charter’s common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in its amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These restrictions, which are designed to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve its ability to utilize its loss carryforwards, are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by Charter’s board of directors. However, there can be no assurance that its board of directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent an ownership change from occurring. If Charter is unable to retain key employees, its ability to manage its business could be adversely affected. Charter’s operational results have depended, and its future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of its management team. Charter’s ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect Charter’s ability to manage its business and its future operational and financial results. Charter’s inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm its operating results. Charter continuously evaluates and pursues large and small acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses, products or technologies that it believes could complement or expand its business or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. From time to time, including in the near term, Charter may enter into letters of intent with companies with which it is negotiating for potential acquisitions or investments, or as to which it is conducting due diligence. An investment in, or acquisition of, complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future could materially decrease the amount of Charter’s available cash or require it to seek additional equity or debt financing. Charter may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into its existing business and operations. Charter’s due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions Charter completes, it may not achieve the growth, synergies or other benefits it expected to achieve, and Charter may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect its operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm its business. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology, individually or across multiple opportunities, could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. I-35 Table of Contents Charter’s business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect its business. Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators’ operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues. Cable operators are subject to various laws and regulations including those covering the following: · the provisioning and marketing of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies; · subscriber and employee privacy and data security; · limited rate regulation of video service; · copyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals; · when a cable system must carry a broadcast station or obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station; · the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers; · limitations on the ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control inside wiring; · the provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality rules; · the provision of voice communications; · cable franchise renewals and transfers; · equal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, disability access, technical standards, marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and · approval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant's business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction. Additionally, many aspects of these laws and regulations are often the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over Charter’s cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks it already faces, and proposals that might make it easier for its employees to unionize. Some states are considering adopting energy efficiency regulations governing the operation of equipment (such as broadband modems) that Charter uses to deliver Internet services, which could constrain innovation in broadband services and equipment. Congress is considering whether to rewrite the entire Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to account for changes in the communications marketplace. Congress and various federal agencies are also considering more focused changes, such as new privacy restrictions and new restrictions on the use of personal and profiling information for behavioral advertising. In response to recent global data breaches, malicious activity and cyber threats, as well as the general increasing concerns regarding the protection of consumers’ personal information, Congress and various federal agencies are also considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for Charter’s business. These new laws, as well as existing legal and regulatory obligations, could affect Charter’s operations and require significant expenditures. In addition, federal, state, and local regulators could deny necessary approval of the Comcast Transactions or impose additional regulatory conditions in connection with their review of the Comcast Transactions that could affect its operations. I-36 Table of Contents Charter’s cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect its business. Charter’s cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal. In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and Charter has operated and is operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities. The traditional cable franchising regime has undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions. Some state franchising laws do not allow Charter to immediately opt into favorable statewide franchising as quickly as new entrants, and often require Charter to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than those applied to new entrants. There can be no assurance that Charter will be able to comply with all significant provisions of its franchise agreements and certain of its franchisers have from time to time alleged that Charter has not complied with these agreements. Additionally, although historically Charter has renewed its franchises without incurring significant costs, there can be no assurance that Charter will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, its franchises in the future. A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect Charter’s business in the affected geographic area. Charter’s cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create additional competition for Charter’s products, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations. Charter’s cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems. In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with Charter on more favorable terms. As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which Charter holds franchises. The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants. At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws, principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators. Broadband delivery of video content is not necessarily subject to the same franchise obligations applicable to Charter’s traditional cable systems. The FCC administers a program that collects Universal Service Fund contributions from telecommunications service providers and uses them to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low- income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers in the future. Although the FCC decided in the net neutrality proceeding not to require such contributions at this time, a variety of regulatory changes may lead the FCC to expand the collection of Universal Service Fund contributions to encompass Internet service providers. The FCC has begun to redirect some of this funding to broadband deployment in ways that could assist competitors in competing with Charter’s services. I-37 Table of Contents Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on Charter’s business, which could further increase its expenses. In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems. This additional regulation increases the cost of operating Charter’s business. Local franchising authorities may impose new and more restrictive requirements. Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to Charter’s tax positions could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Charter operates cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, is subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect Charter’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that its effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on Charter’s services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. The federal Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits many taxes on Internet access service, will expire October 1, 2015, unless it is renewed by Congress. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on Charter’s services which could impact its customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase Charter’s income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that Charter’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that it would be successful in any such challenge. Further regulation of the cable industry could impair Charter’s ability to raise rates to cover its increasing costs, resulting in increased losses. Currently, rate regulation of cable systems is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities. However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation. It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases for Charter’s video services or even for its high-speed Internet and voice services. Should this occur, it would impede Charter’s ability to raise its rates. If Charter is unable to raise its rates in response to increasing costs, its losses would increase. There has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of them available on a standalone, rather than a bundled basis to cable operators, and in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à-la-carte basis to consumers. While any new regulation or legislation designed to enable cable operators to purchase programming on a stand-alone basis could be beneficial to Charter, any such new regulation or legislation that limits how Charter sells programming could adversely affect its business. Actions by pole owners might subject Charter to significantly increased pole attachment costs. Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles. Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service. In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation. In 2011, the FCC amended its pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment. The order overall strengthens the cable industry’s ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions. It also allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments I-38 Table of Contents that could result in additional costs for cable operators. The new rules were affirmed in 2013. Future regulatory changes in this area could impact the pole attachment rates Charter pays utility companies. Increasing regulation of Charter’s Internet service product could adversely affect its ability to provide new products and services. On February 26, 2015, the FCC adopted open Internet rules that reclassify wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services and regulate broadband services offered by Internet service providers (ISPs) under Title II, Title III and Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. The regulations prohibit ISPs from: (1) blocking access to, or impairing, or degrading, legal content, applications, services or non-harmful devices; and (2) favoring selected Internet traffic in exchange for consideration. The rules also allow the FCC to hear complaints and take enforcement action if it determines that the interconnection agreements of ISPs are not just and reasonable, or if ISPs fail to meet a new general obligation not to unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably disadvantage consumers or edge providers. The rules also require greater transparency by ISPs, including increased disclosure of promotional rates, fees and surcharges. The FCC forbears, or refrains from, imposing certain Title II regulation on ISPs, such as state regulation, tariffs, and last-mile unbundling, and does not assess Universal Service Fund fees on broadband at this time. Several broadband providers previously indicated their intention to challenge any utility-style regulations adopted by the FCC in court. We do not know at the current time if the new regulations adopted by the FCC actually will go into effect or be struck down by a legal appeal, or how the new rules actually would be administered by the FCC, but such rules could limit Charter’s ability to efficiently manage its cable systems and respond to operational and competitive challenges. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on Charter. Cable operators also face significant regulation of their video channel carriage. Charter can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that it might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local public, educational and governmental access programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system). The FCC adopted revised commercial leased access rules which would dramatically reduce the rate Charter can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase its administrative burdens, but these remained stayed while under appeal. Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past that, if adopted, could impact Charter’s carriage of broadcast signals by simultaneously eliminating the cable industry’s compulsory copyright license and the retransmission consent requirements governing cable’s retransmission of broadcast signals. The FCC also continues to consider changes to the rules affecting the relationship between programmers and multichannel video distributors. Future regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with Charter’s preferred use of limited channel capacity, increase its programming costs, and limit its ability to offer services that would maximize its revenue potential. It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting Charter’s discretion over programming decisions. Charter’s voice service is subject to additional regulatory burdens which may increase, causing it to incur additional costs. Charter offers voice communications services over its broadband network using voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those Charter offers its customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that Charter’s VoIP services can compete in the market. The scope of these interconnection rights is being reviewed in a current FCC proceeding, which may affect Charter’s ability to compete in the provision of voice services or result in additional costs. The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications I-39 Table of Contents regulations are applied to Charter’s VoIP service, it could cause Charter to incur additional costs. The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements to many VoIP providers such as Charter, including E-9-1-1, Universal Service Fund collection, Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) obligations, privacy of Customer Proprietary Network Information, number porting, rural call completion reporting, disability access and discontinuance of service requirements. In November 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers, including VoIP service providers like Charter. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the rules in May 2014. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. Charter received intercarrier compensation of approximately $23 million, $21 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Factors Relating to the Comcast Transactions As a result of the Comcast Transactions, current Charter stockholders’ ownership interest in Charter will be diluted from 100% to approximately 92%. Immediately following the Comcast Transactions, it is expected that the current stockholders of Charter, who presently own 100% of Charter, will own approximately 92% of the outstanding common stock of Charter. The Comcast Transactions therefore will result in substantial dilution of the ownership interest of the current Charter stockholders. Additionally, due to the ownership dilution, Charter’s current stockholders as a group will be able to exercise less influence after the Comcast Transactions than they currently exercise over the management, operations and policies for Charter. If GreatLand Connections raises less proceeds in the related financing transactions than currently contemplated, Charter is obligated pursuant to the Merger Agreement and the financing arrangements to increase its stock consideration paid in the Charter Merger, which would further dilute existing Charter stockholders. Also, if the price at which shares of Charter trade were to be lower during the 60 days leading up to the closing of the Transactions, Charter would have to issue more shares further diluting existing Charter stockholders. Completion of the Comcast Transactions is subject to many conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Comcast Transactions will not be completed. Charter’s obligation and the obligation of Comcast to complete the Comcast Transactions are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others: · completion of Comcast’s acquisition of TWC; · expiration or termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act (“HSR Act”) waiting period and receipt of certain regulatory approvals for the Comcast Transactions, in most cases without the imposition of a burdensome condition; · unless not required under applicable law, approval by Charter’s stockholders; · receipt of opinions of counsel as to the tax-free nature of certain of the Comcast Transactions; · absence of injunction or legal impediment on any of the Comcast Transactions; · effectiveness of a registration statement for GreatLand Connections shares to be issued in the Comcast Transactions and approval for the listing on NASDAQ of those shares; · effectiveness of a registration statement for New Charter shares to be issued in the Comcast Transactions and approval for listing on NASDAQ of those shares; I-40 Table of Contents · accuracy of the representations and warranties with respect to each of the Comcast Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds; · performance of covenants with respect to each of the Comcast Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds; · with respect to Charter’s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred to Spinco and the assets and liabilities transferred by Comcast to Charter, taken as a whole, and with respect to Comcast’s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred by Charter to Comcast and absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Charter, and also with respect to Charter’s obligations, absence of the assertion by Charter’s financing sources of a material adverse effect with respect to Charter; · Spinco’s ability to incur indebtedness in an amount equal to at least 2.5 times its 2014 pro forma EBITDA of the Spinco cable systems; and · completion of the debt-for-debt exchange contemplated in connection with the GreatLand Connections spin-off from Comcast. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Comcast Transactions will be satisfied or waived or that the Comcast Transactions will be completed. In order to complete the Comcast Transactions, Charter along with Comcast must obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such authorizations are not granted or are granted with conditions to the parties, completion of the Comcast Transactions may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Comcast Transactions could be reduced. Completion of the Comcast Transactions is conditioned upon the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods relating to the Comcast Transactions under the HSR Act and the required governmental authorizations, including an order of the FCC, having been obtained and being in full force and effect. Although Charter and Comcast have agreed in the Comcast Agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to obtain the required governmental authorizations, there can be no assurance that the relevant waiting periods will expire or that the relevant authorizations will be obtained. In addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to authorization of the Comcast Transactions, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of Charter’s business after completion of the Comcast Transactions. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Comcast Transactions or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of New Charter following the Comcast Transactions, or otherwise adversely affect Comcast’s business and results of operations after completion of the Comcast Transactions. In addition, there can be no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Comcast Transactions. Charter has relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence on the systems being acquired by Charter and by Spinco. Charter has relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence regarding the systems being acquired by Charter and by Spinco. The transaction terms accordingly provide for assumption by Charter and by Spinco of only those liabilities that are primarily related to the systems acquired by each of them respectively, and for valuation terms that will depend on actual carveout 2014 EBITDA (as defined in the Comcast Agreement) produced by such systems, including true-up adjustment I-41 Table of Contents payments related to EBITDA and, in some cases, working capital. However, it is possible that significant liabilities, present, future or contingent, may be assumed by Charter or Spinco that are not fully reflected in the valuation terms, and accordingly could have a material adverse effect on Charter and/or its investment in Spinco. Similarly, it is possible that certain assets required to operate the systems acquired by Spinco and/or Charter, such as licenses, technologies and/or employees, may not be transferred in the Comcast Transactions, requiring Spinco and/or Charter to incur additional costs and invest additional resources to procure such assets and/or hire employees with expertise in the transferred business, which may adversely affect Charter’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Comcast Transactions. As Charter has already entered into the Comcast Agreement without any diligence conditions, its ongoing diligence is not expected to give rise to any material adjustments in the Comcast Transactions, and its ongoing diligence continues to focus on the transition of the to be acquired systems to its ownership or the provision of services in the case of GreatLand Connections. Charter may not realize anticipated cost synergies and growth opportunities. Charter expects that it will realize cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Comcast Transactions. Its success in realizing these cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase and its ability to provide certain services to GreatLand Connections effectively pursuant to a services agreement. Even if Charter is able to integrate the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase successfully, Charter cannot predict with certainty if or when these cost synergies, growth opportunities and benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. For example, the benefits from the Comcast Transactions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the new business operations or in obtaining or attempting to obtain regulatory approvals for the Comcast Transactions, or negatively impacted by potential programming dis-synergies that Charter may experience as a result of the Comcast Transactions. Realization of any benefits and cost synergies could be affected by the factors described in other risk factors and a number of factors beyond Charter’s control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, the response of competitors and regulatory developments. In addition, certain license and customer contracts which are required to be transferred to GreatLand Connections or Charter by Comcast require the consent of the licensor or customer party to the contract to effect this assignment. Comcast, GreatLand Connections and Charter may be unable to obtain these consents on terms favorable to GreatLand Connections or Charter, respectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on GreatLand Connections’ (and hence on us) or on Charter’s business, financial condition and results of operations after the Comcast Transactions. There can be no assurance that third-party consents will be obtained prior to completion of the Comcast Transactions or at all. The integration of the business acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase with the businesses Charter operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be realized. After consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, Charter will have significantly more systems, assets, investments, businesses, customers and employees than it did prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. The process of integrating these assets with the businesses Charter operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will require it to expend significant capital and significantly expand the scope of its operations and operating and financial systems. Charter’s management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the acquired assets with Charter’s operations before the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include: · integrating the operations of the acquired assets while carrying on the ongoing operations of the businesses Charter operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase; I-42 Table of Contents · integrating information, purchasing, provisioning, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll, reporting and regulatory compliance systems; · integrating and unifying the product offerings and services available to customers, including customer premise equipment and video user interfaces; · completing the conversion of analog systems to all-digital for the systems to be acquired; · managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase; · integrating separate business cultures; · attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the acquired assets; · creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and · the impact on Charter’s business of providing services to Spinco which will also face the foregoing difficulties. Charter and Comcast have agreed to provide each other with transition services in connection with the transferred systems and relevant assets. Providing such services could divert management attention and result in additional costs, particularly as Charter starts up infrastructure and staff to take over transition services and provides transition services to Comcast for former Charter systems. In addition, the inability to procure such services could negatively impact Charter’s expected results of operations. There is no assurance that the assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into the businesses Charter operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. The process of integrating the acquired assets into Charter’s operations prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of its business. If Charter’s management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, Charter’s business could suffer and its liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Even if Charter is able to successfully integrate the new assets, it may not be possible to realize the benefits that are expected to result from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. Programming dis-synergies could also be larger than expected. If Charter fails to realize the benefits it anticipates from the acquisition, its liquidity, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. The value of Charter’s interests in GreatLand Connections following the Comcast Transactions may fluctuate from time to time based on factors beyond its control. Following the Comcast Transactions, the value of Charter’s interests in GreatLand Connections will depend on GreatLand Connections’ operational performance and fluctuations in its share price. Charter will not control the management and operations of GreatLand Connections, and will therefore not be able to prevent or address any decline in the operational performance or trading value of GreatLand Connections. In addition, the operational performance and trading value of GreatLand Connections may be influenced by other factors outside Charter’s control, including risks resulting from the separation of the I-43 Table of Contents cable systems from Comcast; changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or GreatLand Connections’ ability to meet those estimates; and domestic and foreign economic conditions. If the operating results for GreatLand Connections following the Comcast Transactions are poor, Charter may not achieve the increases in revenues and earnings per share that it expects as a result of the Comcast Transactions. Charter has projected that it will derive a portion of its revenues and earnings per share from GreatLand Connections after the Comcast Transactions, through receipt of a services fee of 4.25% of GreatLand Connections’ revenues pursuant to a services agreement. In addition, it will record 33% of GreatLand Connections’ net income, which will also have an impact on its operating results. Therefore, any negative impact on GreatLand Connections or the operations of GreatLand Connections' business could harm Charter’s operating results. Some of the significant factors that could harm GreatLand Connections and the operations of the GreatLand Connections' business, and therefore harm Charter’s future operating results after the Comcast Transactions, include competitive pressure from existing or new companies and a decline in the markets served by GreatLand Connections. If the operating results of the TWC assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase are less than Charter’s expectations, or an increase in the capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain those assets as well as to keep pace with technological developments is necessary, Charter may not achieve the expected level of financial results from the Comcast Transactions. Charter has projected that it will derive a portion of its revenues and earnings per share from the operation of the TWC assets that Charter will acquire in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. Therefore, any negative impact on the TWC assets to be acquired by Charter or the operating results derived from such exchanged and purchased assets could harm Charter’s operating results. Charter’s business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services. Charter intends to make all-digital investments in the TWC assets acquired in the Comcast Transactions and transition toward only using two-way interactive set-top boxes. The increase in capital expenditures necessary for the all-digital investment and the transition toward two-way set-top boxes in the TWC assets may negatively impact the expected financial results from the Comcast Transactions. Charter may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of its customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth. Charter’s inability to maintain, expand and upgrade its existing or acquired assets, including through all-digital initiatives for the TWC assets, could materially adversely affect Charter’s financial condition and results of operations. Because of high debt levels, Charter may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with its terms after the Comcast Transactions. Charter’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. Should its sales decline after the Comcast Transactions, Charter may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If Charter is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Comcast Transactions or should it fail to comply with its financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Charter may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. Charter may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to Charter or at all. Charter’s inability to refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results from operations after the Comcast Transactions. I-44 Table of Contents Charter may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the Comcast Transactions. Uncertainty about the effect of the Comcast Transactions on its employees may have an adverse effect on Charter. This uncertainty may impair its ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the Comcast Transactions are completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Comcast Transactions, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with Charter after the Comcast Transactions. If Charter’s employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, its ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Comcast Transactions could be reduced. Similar challenges exist for Charter in retaining employees being transferred to Charter in the Comcast Transactions and in attracting any additional personnel it may need after the Comcast Transactions. A delay in the completion of the Comcast Transactions may diminish the anticipated benefits of the Comcast Transactions. Completion of the Comcast Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental consents and approvals, orders, authorizations, and rulings, including the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the HSR Act and the adoption of an order by the FCC granting its consent to the transfer of control or assignment of certain licenses and authorizations issued by the FCC. The requirement to receive these consents and approvals, orders, authorizations and rulings before the Comcast Transactions could delay the completion of the Comcast Transactions if, for example, government agencies request additional information from the parties in order to facilitate their review of the Comcast Transactions or require any conditions precedent to granting their approval of the Comcast Transactions. In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the Comcast Transactions on the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on Charter after the Comcast Transactions, including but not limited to its operating results or the value of Charter Class A common stock. Any delay in the completion of the Comcast Transactions could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Comcast Transactions or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Comcast Transactions. Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the Comcast Transactions could make it more difficult for Charter and GreatLand Connections to retain key employees or to pursue business strategies. In addition, until the Comcast Transactions are completed, the attention of its management may be diverted from ongoing business concerns and regular business responsibilities to the extent management is focused on matters relating to the Comcast Transactions. Failure to complete the Comcast Transactions could negatively impact Charter’s stock price and its future business and financial results. If the Comcast Transactions are not completed for any reason, Charter’s ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Comcast Transactions, Charter would be subject to a number of risks such as: · Negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on its stock price; · Negative reactions from its customers, regulators and employees; · A requirement to pay significant costs relating to the Comcast Transactions, and will have significant costs related to the Comcast Transactions, such as interest on the $7.0 billion of debt incurred to fund the Comcast Transactions; · The Comcast Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of Charter’s business with respect to its assets being transferred to Comcast prior to completion of the Comcast Transactions. Such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of the other party (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or I-45 Table of Contents delayed), may have prevented Charter from taking certain specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the Comcast Transactions; and · Matters relating to the Comcast Transactions (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by Charter’s management and expenditures, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Charter in the absence of the Comcast Transactions. If the Comcast Transactions are not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may adversely affect Charter’s business, financial condition, financial results and stock price. In addition, Charter could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Comcast Transactions or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against Charter to perform its obligations under the Comcast Agreement. If the Comcast Spin-Off does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of Spinco, then Comcast may recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain and Spinco (and in certain circumstances, Charter) may be obligated to indemnify Comcast for these taxes. The completion of the Comcast Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of opinions from counsel as to the tax-free nature of certain of the Comcast Transactions, including the Comcast Spin-Off. The opinions of counsel will be based on, among other things, current law and certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Comcast, Spinco and Charter. Any change in currently applicable law, which may be retroactive, or the failure of any representation to be true, correct and complete, could adversely affect the conclusions reached by counsel in the opinions. Moreover, the opinions will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the conclusions reached in the opinions. Even if the Comcast Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free spin-off for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Comcast Spin-Off will be taxable to Comcast pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of the stock of either Comcast or Spinco is acquired, directly or indirectly (taking into account the stock of Spinco acquired by New Charter in the Merger and the stock of Comcast and Spinco acquired by TWC stockholders in the transaction between Comcast and TWC and in the Comcast Spin-Off, respectively), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Comcast Spin-Off. Because Spinco stockholders that are former Comcast stockholders (exclusive of former TWC stockholders) will own more than 50% of the common stock of Spinco immediately after the Merger, the Merger, standing alone, is not expected to cause the Comcast Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast under Section 355(e) of the Code. However, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of Spinco common stock or Comcast common stock, either before or after the Comcast Spin-Off, are part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Comcast Spin-Off, such determination could result in the recognition of gain by Comcast under Section 355(e) of the Code. If Section 355(e) of the Code applied, Comcast might recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain. Under the tax sharing agreement that will be entered into by Comcast, Spinco and, to a limited extent, New Charter, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, Spinco will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Comcast Spin-Off that arise as a result of certain actions or failures to act by Spinco or as a result of certain changes in ownership of the stock of Spinco after the completion of the Comcast Transactions. Spinco will be unable to take certain actions after the Comcast Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Comcast Spin-Off, and such restrictions could be significant. If Spinco is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Comcast Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on Spinco. Moreover, under the tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Comcast Spin-Off that arise from New Charter taking any actions I-46 Table of Contents that would result in New Charter holding Spinco shares in excess of the percentage of Spinco shares acquired in the Merger during the two-year period following the Comcast Spin-Off. If New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Comcast Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on New Charter. New Charter and Spinco will be unable to take certain actions after the Comcast Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Comcast Spin-Off, and the impact of such restrictions could be significant. The tax sharing agreement will prohibit Spinco and New Charter from taking actions that could cause the Comcast Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast. In particular, for two years after the completion of the Comcast Transactions, Spinco and New Charter will not be permitted to take actions that would result in New Charter holding (or being treated as holding) Spinco shares in excess of the percentage of Spinco acquired by New Charter in the Merger and the stock of Comcast and Spinco acquired by TWC stockholders in the transaction between Comcast and TWC and in the Comcast Spin-Off, respectively), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Comcast Spin-Off. These actions could include entering into certain merger or consolidation transactions, certain stock issuances and certain other desirable strategic transactions. Because of these restrictions, Spinco may be limited in the amount of stock that it can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the completion of the Charter Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and financial condition. The tax sharing agreement will also provide that in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, Spinco and New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Comcast Spin-Off that arise as a result of actions in violation of the prohibitions and limitations described above. If Spinco or New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Comcast Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on Spinco or New Charter, as applicable. Charter will incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the Comcast Transactions. Charter expects to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Comcast Transactions before, at and after closing the Comcast Transactions. Charter also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems implementation costs and employment-related costs. Charter continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the Comcast Transactions and integration. Although Charter expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow Charter to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, if the Comcast Transactions are not consummated, Charter would bear some or all of these costs without the benefit of efficiencies from the integration of the businesses. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on Charter’s financial results. Sales of Charter’s common stock after the Comcast Transactions may negatively affect the market price of New Charter common stock. The shares of Charter’s common stock to be issued in the Comcast Transactions to holders of Spinco common stock (initially, the Comcast shareholders) will generally be eligible for immediate resale. The market price of Charter’s common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Charter’s common stock in the market after the consummation of the Comcast Transactions or even the perception that these sales could occur. I-47 Table of Contents Currently, Comcast stockholders may include index funds that have performance tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or other stock indices, and institutional investors subject to various investing guidelines. Because New Charter may not be included in these indices following the consummation of the Comcast Transactions or may not meet the investing guidelines of some of these institutional investors, these index funds and institutional investors may decide to or may be required to sell the common stock that they receive in the Comcast Transactions. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for New Charter to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it deems appropriate. Factors Relating to TruePosition There can be no assurance that the recent acquisition of Skyhook will be beneficial. On February 14, 2014, TruePosition completed the acquisition of Skyhook, a global location network with more than 1 billion geocoded access points. There can be no assurance that the Skyhook acquisition will achieve the desired benefits of the transaction, which include increasing TruePosition’s competitive position and other potential synergies, or that Skyhook will continue to expand its customer base as anticipated, which is critical to Skyhook’s revenue generation. In addition, TruePosition incurred significant transaction and acquisition-related fees and costs. If the Skyhook acquisition is not accretive to TruePosition’s business and operations, it could materially adversely affect the financial condition of TruePosition. TruePosition and its subsidiary Skyhook face competition from multiple sources. TruePosition faces competition from a second provider of Uplink Time Difference of Arrival “UTDOA”, Commscope, and from the suppliers of other wireless location technologies and solutions, such as GPS, Observed Time Difference of Arrival “OTDOA” and Terrestrial Beacons, which provide similar location-based products and services to TruePosition. Skyhook faces competition from Google, Inc. “Google”, HERE (a division of Nokia) and smaller regional or niche market competitors, as providers of location-based services and products. Certain of these competitors are substantially larger than TruePosition or Skyhook, as applicable, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Thus, many of these large enterprises are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in spending by customers in its markets, and often have broader product lines and market focus, have greater brand recognition and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a single market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer, may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than TruePosition or Skyhook is able to provide. If large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with TruePosition or Skyhook choose to enter its markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition would likely intensify. In addition, the growth of new location technologies currently in development may further increase competition to provide these new technologies. If TruePosition and Skyhook are not able to compete successfully for customers, the financial position of TruePosition may be materially adversely affected. The revenue of TruePosition and Skyhook each depend on a limited number of customers, and the loss of their more significant customers could adversely affect the business of TruePosition. TruePosition and its operating subsidiary Skyhook derive a significant amount of their respective revenue from a limited number of customers, and it is anticipated that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of the revenue of TruePosition and Skyhook individually and in the aggregate. Because they depend on a limited number of customers, the loss of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of TruePosition. Certain of these customers may fail to renew their contracts with TruePosition or Skyhook from time to time, creating additional risk with respect to the potential loss of revenue from these customers. For example, one of TruePosition’s former largest clients, T-Mobile USA “T-Mobile”, failed to renew its contract with TruePosition and ceased using TruePosition’s services at the end of 2011, which resulted in a material reduction in TruePosition’s revenue. In addition, TruePosition has been largely dependent since 2012 on I-48 Table of Contents one wireless carrier, which accounted for approximately 90% of TruePosition’s overall revenue, and this contract expires on January 1, 2016. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of these existing customers of True Position or Skyhook would materially adversely affect revenue, financial condition and results of operations of TruePosition. The revenue of TruePosition and Skyhook each depend on the commercial deployment of wireless and other communications technologies and their ability to continue to drive customer demand for their products and services in a rapidly evolving and developing industry. TruePosition and Skyhook each develop, patent and commercialize products and services based on wireless and other communications technologies. They depend on their customers, licensees, operators of these wireless technologies and networks and other industries to use and timely deploy their products and services. TruePosition and Skyhook also depend on their customers and licensees to develop products and services with value-added features to drive sales as well as consumer demand for new wireless devices. As a result, TruePosition and Skyhook must stay abreast of rapidly evolving technological developments and offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of their products and services, and they must be able to incorporate new technologies into their products and services in order to address the needs of their customers. The failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products and services on a timely and cost-competitive basis that comply with evolving industry standards and regulations or the inability to continue to market existing products on a cost-competitive basis could have a material adverse effect on TruePosition’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in order to successfully develop and market certain of TruePosition’s or Skyhook’s products and services, TruePosition or Skyhook may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. TruePosition and Skyhook cannot provide assurances that they will be able to timely enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, or at all. Changes to the regulatory environment in which TruePosition or Skyhook’s customers operate may negatively impact their business. In the U.S., the FCC regulates wireless carriers, wireless services and E- 9-1-1 requirements. FCC regulatory actions affecting wireless carriers and services and E-9-1-1 requirements may adversely affect TruePosition’s wireless phone and device location technology and the positioning services offered by Skyhook. The E-9-1-1 location accuracy requirements originally adopted by the FCC in 1996 applied only to 911 calls originating outdoors, but the new rules adopted by the FCC on January 29, 2015 extend location accuracy requirements to E-9-1-1 calls. However, because of the increased use of wireless phones indoors, on January 29, 2015, the FCC adopted indoor location accuracy rules its Fourth Report and Order in its E-9-1-1 location accuracy proceeding. Under the new rules, all wireless providers generally must provide horizontal location information for 40% of all wireless 911 calls within 2 years of the effective date of the Fourth Report and Order (April 30, 2015), 50% within 3 years, 70% within 5 years and 80 % within 6 years of the effective date. Wireless providers also must meet specific requirements for the provision of vertical location information for wireless 911 calls within three-to-eight years of the effective date. Smaller wireless providers may have additional time to comply with certain of the horizontal and vertical benchmarks. Implementation of the rules may be delayed if a party to the rulemaking proceeding challenges the rules in federal court. A distinguishing characteristic of TruePosition’s UTDOA and Skyhook’s WiFi technologies are their ability to locate wireless devices indoors, where GPS signals may be compromised or blocked. As the rules currently stand, they may offer opportunity to TruePosition’s and/or Skyhook’s technologies. However, even if TruePosition and/or Skyhook is able to produce and provide products and services compliant with these regulations, much uncertainty exists as to whether TruePosition or Skyhook will be able to successfully compete for carrier contracts. TruePosition will be actively competing for carrier contracts required to comply with the regulations. Even if TruePosition is able to produce and provide products and services compliant with these regulations, until information regarding I-49 Table of Contents any compliant products and services offered by TruePosition’s competitors becomes available, much uncertainty exists as to whether TruePosition will be able to successfully compete for carrier contracts. Other U.S. regulatory agencies also may seek to regulate aspects of the services provided by TruePosition and Skyhook. Further, to the extent TruePosition and Skyhook operate abroad, both businesses are subject to potential action by foreign regulatory agencies. TruePosition cannot anticipate how such additional regulation by the FCC, another U.S. Government agency, or any foreign regulator will affect its businesses. The success of TruePosition and Skyhook depends on the integrity of their systems and infrastructures. TruePosition and Skyhook rely on their enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources and financial reporting. Portions of TruePosition’s or Skyhook’s IT infrastructure may experience interruptions of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. TruePosition and Skyhook may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. If TruePosition and Skyhook are unable to successfully implement major systems initiatives and maintain critical information systems, they could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on TruePosition’s business. Furthermore, the businesses of TruePosition and Skyhook depend on delivering products and services to customers of consistently high quality and reliability. If the services offered by TruePosition or Skyhook were to fail or not to perform as expected, their services could be rendered ineffective, and any significant or systemic service failure could also result in a loss of customer confidence, as well as reputational damage, resulting in a material adverse impact on TruePosition’s business. Privacy concerns relating to the technology of TruePosition and Skyhook could damage their reputations and deter current and potential users from using their products and applications. Concerns about the practices of TruePosition and Skyhook with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information, user location information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage their reputations and operating results. While TruePosition and Skyhook strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as their own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against TruePosition or Skyhook by government entities or others, or could cause them to lose users and customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on TruePosition’s business. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with the data practices of TruePosition and Skyhook. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring changes in the data practices of TruePosition and Skyhook, which could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of TruePosition. Complying with these various laws could result in the incurrence of substantial costs or require changes to business practices in a manner adverse to the business of TruePosition and Skyhook. Security breaches and other disruptions, including as a result of cyber attacks, could compromise the information collected and stored by TruePosition and Skyhook and expose them to liability, which would cause business and reputational damage. In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, each of TruePosition and Skyhook collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, their proprietary business information and that of their customers and suppliers, and potentially personally identifiable information of their users and employees, in their facilities and on their networks. The secure processing, I-50 Table of Contents maintenance and transmission of this information is important to their operations. Despite security measures in place at TruePosition and Skyhook, their information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise their networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption of operations, reputational damage, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect TruePosition’s business and revenue. Actions taken by TruePosition and Skyhook to adequately protect their respective intellectual property rights, such as litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce their intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs, and their ability to compete could be harmed if they fail to take such actions or are unsuccessful in doing so. TruePosition and Skyhook rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements and other methods to protect their intellectual property in the United States and internationally. TruePosition and Skyhook have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and/or in foreign jurisdictions which primarily relate to products and the technology used in connection with the products and services offered by TruePosition and Skyhook. TruePosition and Skyhook cannot be certain that the steps they have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of their proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where international treaties, organizations and foreign laws may not protect their proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. Any pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved, and any issued patents may not provide TruePosition or Skyhook with competitive advantages or may be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or misappropriated by third parties. Other companies, including some of TruePosition’s and Skyhook’s largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in its industry and the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit TruePosition’s and Skyhook’s ability to introduce new products and services unless it secures necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, as the number of issued patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may also increase. TruePosition and Skyhook may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by TruePosition or Skyhook or parties that they have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. Third parties may also claim that employees of TruePosition or Skyhook have misappropriated or divulged their former employers’ trade secrets or confidential information. An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. In addition, TruePosition and Skyhook have been required and may be required in the future to initiate litigation in order to assert claims of infringement of their intellectual property, enforce patents issued or licensed to them, protect their trade secrets or know-how or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. TruePosition and Skyhook also have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could subject TruePosition or Skyhook to significant costs or liabilities or require them to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of TruePosition. Any such litigation could also result in rulings impacting the validity or enforceability of TruePosition’s or Skyhook’s patents, which could result in new or increased competition that could have a material adverse effect on TruePosition’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, Skyhook is currently involved in litigation with Google, in which Skyhook is alleging the infringement by Google of eight of Skyhook’s patents involving location technology. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” If infringement claims are made against TruePosition or Skyhook or their products are found to infringe a third parties’ patent or intellectual property, TruePosition, Skyhook or one of their indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties’ patent or other intellectual property rights. However, TruePosition and Skyhook may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to them particularly from their competitors. If they I-51 Table of Contents or one of their indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that TruePosition or Skyhook use or that is used in one of their products, TruePosition or Skyhook could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of their products. They may also have to make royalty or other payments, cross license their technology or make payments pursuant to third party indemnitees. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for additional information about pending litigation and indemnification claims. In addition, TruePosition maintains as its trade secrets certain data compilations and other information. Breach of one or more of these trade secrets could have a material adverse effect on TruePosition’s results of operations and financial condition. Factors Relating to the Broadband Spin-Off We may have a significant indemnity obligation to Liberty if the Broadband Spin-Off is treated as a taxable transaction. In connection with the Broadband Spin-Off, Liberty received an opinion of tax counsel to the effect that the Broadband Spin-Off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to Liberty and its stockholders under Section 355, Section 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), except with respect to the receipt of cash in lieu of fractional shares. An opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the conclusions expressed in such opinion could be challenged by the IRS, and a court could sustain such challenge. In December 2014, the IRS completed its review of the Broadband Spin-Off and notified Liberty that it agreed with the nontaxable characterization of the transaction. If it is determined however, for whatever reason, that the Broadband Spin-Off does not qualify for tax-free treatment, Liberty and/or its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Prior to the Broadband Spin-Off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Liberty. Under this agreement, Liberty is generally responsible for any taxes and losses resulting from the failure of the Broadband Spin-Off to qualify as a tax-free transaction; however, we are required to indemnify Liberty for any taxes and losses which (i) result primarily from, individually or in the aggregate, the breach of certain covenants made by us (applicable to actions or failures to act by our company and our subsidiaries following the completion of the Broadband Spin-Off), or (ii) result from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Broadband Spin-Off as a result of the treatment of the Broadband Spin-Off as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, a 50-percent or greater interest (measured by either vote or value) in the stock of our company or any successor corporation. Our indemnification obligations to Liberty are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If we are required to indemnify Liberty for taxes and losses resulting from the failure of the Broadband Spin-Off to qualify as tax-free, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the Broadband Spin-Off, we may determine to forego certain transactions that might have otherwise been advantageous to our company, including certain asset dispositions or other strategic transactions for some period of time following the Broadband Spin-Off. In addition, our indemnity obligation related to the Broadband Spin-Off under the tax sharing agreement might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control transaction for some period of time following the Broadband Spin-Off. Our company has overlapping directors and officers with Liberty, Liberty Interactive and Liberty TripAdvisor Holdings, Inc., which may lead to conflicting interests. As a result of the Broadband Spin-Off, the September 2011 separation of Starz from Liberty and the January 2013 spin-off of Liberty from Starz, most of the executive officers of Broadband also serve as executive officers of Liberty, Liberty Interactive and Liberty TripAdvisor Holdings, Inc. (“TripCo”) and there are overlapping directors. None of these companies has any ownership interest in any of the others. Our executive officers and members of our company’s board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at Liberty, Liberty Interactive, I-52 Table of Contents TripCo or any other public company have fiduciary duties to that company’s stockholders. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when our company, Liberty, Liberty Interactive or TripCo pursues acquisitions and other business opportunities that may be suitable for each of them. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting more than one of the companies to which they owe fiduciary duties. Our company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and our restated certificate of incorporation will provide that no director or officer of our company will breach their fiduciary duty and therefore be liable to our company or its stockholders by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including Liberty, Liberty Interactive and TripCo) instead of our company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to our company, unless (x) such opportunity was expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company or as a director or officer of any of our subsidiaries, and (y) such opportunity relates to a line of business in which our company or any of its subsidiaries is then directly engaged. In addition, any potential conflict that qualifies as a “related party transaction” (as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K) is subject to review by an independent committee of the applicable issuer’s board of directors in accordance with its corporate governance guidelines. Any other potential conflicts that arise will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each issuer. From time to time, we may enter into transactions with Liberty or Liberty Interactive and/or their respective subsidiaries or other affiliates. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to our company, Liberty, Liberty Interactive or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officer or director. Our inter-company agreements were negotiated while we were a subsidiary of Liberty. We entered into a number of inter-company agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Liberty for certain of our businesses. In addition, we entered into a services agreement with Liberty pursuant to which it will provide to us certain management, administrative, financial, treasury, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we will reimburse them on a fixed fee basis. The terms of all of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Liberty, and hence may not be the result of arms’ length negotiations. We believe that the terms of these inter-company agreements are commercially reasonable and fair to all parties under the circumstances; however, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of the foregoing agreements after the Broadband Spin-Off. Factors Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market Our stock price may be affected by the results of operation of Charter and developments in its business. The fair value of our investment in Charter, on an as-converted basis, was approximately $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2014, which represents all of our total market value following the Broadband Spin-Off. As a result of the Spin-Off, our stock price will be directly affected by the results of operations of Charter and the developments in its business. Although our Series B common stock is quoted on the OTC Markets, there is no meaningful trading market for the stock. Our Series B common stock is not widely held, with approximately 95% of the outstanding shares immediately following the Broadband Spin-Off beneficially owned by John C. Malone, the Chairman of the board and a director of our company. Although it is quoted on the OTC Markets, it is sparsely traded and does not have an active trading market. The OTC Markets tend to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Markets as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of "bid" and "ask" quotations, and market I-53 Table of Contents conditions. Each share of the Series B common stock is convertible, at any time at the option of the holder, into one share of our Series A common stock, which is listed and traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "LBRDA." If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent auditors are required to issue an opinion on management’s assessment of those matters. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be tested in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; · limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; · requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; and I-54 Table of Contents · the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. In addition, John C. Malone currently beneficially owns shares representing the power to direct approximately 47.1% of the aggregate voting power in our company, due to his beneficial ownership approximately 95% of the outstanding shares of our Series B common stock as of February 28, 2015. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 