D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Incurred Significant Losses Since Our Inception And Anticipate That We Will Continue To Incur Significant Losses For The Foreseeable Future. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, and we have not yet generated significant income, with the exception of the French research tax credit (crédit d’impôt recherche), or CIR, which is classified as other income in our statement of income (loss). We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in 2002, including net losses of €12.9 million, €19.3 million and €24.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Although we have historically generated non-meaningful revenues through the sale of our Diallertest Milk product in France, we do not expect these sales to be a point of strategic focus for our company in the future and we may even discontinue these sales in the future. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of €54.8 million. We have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our clinical and pre-clinical development activities. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, obtaining public assistance in support of innovation, such as conditional advances from OSEO Innovation, or OSEO, and reimbursements of research tax credit claims. The amount of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the pace and amount of our future expenditures and our ability to obtain funding through equity or debt financings, strategic collaborations or additional grants or tax credits. We have not completed pivotal clinical trials for any lead product candidates and it will be several years, if ever, before we have a product candidate ready for 6 Table of Contents commercialization, if at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market a product candidate, our future revenues will depend upon the size of any markets in which our product candidates have received approval, and our ability to achieve sufficient market acceptance, reimbursement from third-party payors and adequate market share for our product candidates in those markets. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially if and as we: • continue our research, pre-clinical and clinical development of our product candidates; • expand the scope of our current clinical trials for our product candidates; • initiate additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies for our product candidates; • further develop the manufacturing process for our product candidates; • change or add additional manufacturers or suppliers; • seek regulatory and marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical studies; • establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval, especially in North America; • seek to identify and validate additional product candidates; • acquire or in-license other product candidates and technologies; • make milestone or other payments under any in-license agreements; • maintain, protect and expand our intellectual property portfolio; • attract and retain new and existing skilled personnel; • create additional infrastructure to support our operations as a public company; and • experience any delays or encounter issues with any of the above. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from year to year, such that a period-to-period comparison of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance. In any particular period or periods, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. 7 Table of Contents We May Need To Raise Additional Funding, Which May Not Be Available On Acceptable Terms, Or At All. Failure To Obtain This Necessary Capital When Needed May Force Us To Delay, Limit Or Terminate Our Product Development Efforts Or Other Operations. We are currently advancing our product candidates through pre-clinical and clinical development. Developing product candidates is expensive, lengthy and risky, and we expect our research and development expenses to increase substantially in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we advance Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk through clinical development. As of December 31, 2014, our cash and cash equivalents were €114.6 million. We expect that our existing cash will be sufficient to fund our current operations until the end of 2016. However, our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned, through public or private equity or debt financings, government or other third-party funding, marketing and distribution arrangements and other collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements or a combination of these approaches. In any event, we will require additional capital to pursue pre-clinical and clinical activities, pursue regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, our product candidates. Raising funds in the current economic environment may present additional challenges. Even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans, we may seek additional capital if market conditions are favorable or if we have specific strategic considerations. Any additional fundraising efforts may divert our management from their day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our shareholders and the issuance of additional securities, whether equity or debt, by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. The sale of additional equity or convertible securities would dilute all of our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and we may be required to agree to certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. We could also be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or otherwise at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and we may be required to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidate or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail, delay or discontinue one or more of our research or development programs or the commercialization of any product candidate or be unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, as desired, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Limited In Our Ability To Raise Additional Share Capital, Which May Make It Difficult For Us To Raise Capital To Fund Our Operations. Under French law, our share capital may be increased only with shareholders’ approval at an extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting following the recommendation of our board of directors. The shareholders may delegate to our board of directors either the authority (délégation de compétence) or the power (délégation de pouvoir) to carry out any increase in share capital. See “Item 10. B—Memorandum and Articles of Association”, our board may be precluded from issuing additional ordinary shares without first obtaining shareholders’ approval. In addition, the French Commercial Code imposes certain limitations on our ability to price any offering of our share capital without preferential subscription right (sans droit préférentiel de souscription), which limitation may prevent us from successfully completing any such offering. Specifically, under the French Commercial Code, unless the offering is less than 10% of issued share capital, securities cannot be sold in an offering if it is not possible to fix the per share price of the shares at a level at least equal to the volume weighted average trading price on Euronext Paris over the last three trading days preceding the commencement of the marketing of the transaction, referred to as the “book building” process, less a maximum discount of 5%. 8 Table of Contents If We Do Not Obtain The Capital Necessary To Fund Our Operations, We Will Be Unable To Successfully Develop, Pursue Regulatory Approval For, And Commercialize, Our Biopharmaceutical Products. The development of biopharmaceutical products is capital-intensive. We anticipate we may require additional financing to continue to fund our operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including: • progress in, and the costs of, our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and other research and development programs; • depending on the regulatory authorities’ requests, larger or longer clinical trials; • the scope, prioritization and number of our research and development programs; • the achievement of milestones or occurrence of other developments that trigger payments under any collaboration agreements we obtain; • the extent to which we are obligated to reimburse, or entitled to reimbursement of, clinical trial costs under future collaboration agreements, if any; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for commercial production; and • the costs of establishing, or contracting for, sales and marketing capabilities if we obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through collaboration arrangements, sales of our securities, debt financings, obtaining public assistance in support of innovation, such as conditional advances from OSEO, and reimbursements of research tax credit claims, or by licensing one or more of our future product candidates. Dislocations in the financial markets have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our fundraising needs. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Additional funding, if obtained, may significantly dilute existing shareholders if that financing is obtained through issuing equity or instruments convertible into equity. Our Product Development Programs For Candidates May Require Substantial Financial Resources And May Ultimately Be Unsuccessful. In addition to the development of our lead product candidates, we may pursue development of our other early-stage development programs. Our current early-stage development programs are still in the pre-clinical proof-of-concept phase and may not result in product candidates we can advance to the clinical development phase. None of our other potential product candidates has commenced clinical trials, and there are a number of U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and European Medicines Agency, or EMA, regulatory requirements that we must satisfy before we can commence these clinical trials, if at all. Satisfaction of these requirements will entail substantial time, effort and financial resources. We may never satisfy these requirements. Any time, effort and financial resources we expend on our other early-stage development programs may adversely affect our ability to continue development and commercialization of Viaskin patch product candidates, and we may never commence clinical trials of such development programs despite expending significant resources in pursuit of their development. Even if we do commence clinical trials of our other potential product candidates, such product candidates may never be approved by the FDA or the EMA. 9 Table of Contents The Requirements Of Being A U.S. Public Company May Strain Our Resources, Divert Management’s Attention And Affect Our Ability To Attract And Retain Executive Management And Qualified Board Members. As a U.S. public company, we are and will continue to incur legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not previously incur. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Nasdaq listing requirements and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company” and/or a foreign private issuer. The Exchange Act requires that, as a public company, we file annual, semi-annual and current reports with respect to our business, financial condition and result of operations. However, as a foreign private issuer, we are not required to file quarterly reports with respect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently make annual and semi-annual filings with respect to our listing on Euronext Paris. Unless otherwise required by the Exchange Act or the listing rules of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we do not expect to file quarterly financial reports and will continue to file financial reports on an annual and semi-annual basis. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, including an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we are not required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we have been and continue to be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to comply with these requirements, which will increase our cost and expense. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. As a U.S. public company that is subject to these rules and regulations, we may find it is more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a U.S. public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Further, being a U.S. public company and a French public company has an impact on disclosure of information and compliance with two sets of applicable rules. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Risks Related to Product Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization We Depend Almost Entirely On The Successful Development Of Our Novel Viaskin Technology. We Cannot Be Certain That We Will Be Able To Obtain Regulatory Approval For, Or Successfully Commercialize, Viaskin Products. We currently have two lead Viaskin technology-based product candidates, Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk, in clinical development, and our business depends almost entirely on their successful clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We currently have no drug or biological product approved for sale and may never be able to develop a marketable drug or biological product. Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk will require substantial additional clinical development, testing, and regulatory approval before we are permitted to commence their commercialization. Our other product candidates, such as Viaskin HDM, are still in pre-clinical development. The clinical trials of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and, if approved, market any product candidate. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that, among other things, the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. This process can take many years and may include post-marketing studies and surveillance, which will require the expenditure of substantial resources. Of the large number of drugs in development in the United States, only a small percentage successfully completes the FDA regulatory approval process and is commercialized. Accordingly, even if we are able to obtain the requisite financing to continue to fund our development and clinical programs, we cannot assure you that Viaskin Peanut, Viaskin Milk or any other of our product candidates will be successfully developed or commercialized. We are not permitted to market Viaskin Peanut or Viaskin Milk in the United States until we receive approval of a Biologic License Application, or a BLA, from the FDA, or in any other countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries. Obtaining approval of a BLA, or requisite approval in other countries, is a complex, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA may delay, limit or deny approval of Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk for many reasons, including, among others: • we may not be able to demonstrate that Viaskin Peanut or Viaskin Milk is safe and effective in treating food allergies, to the satisfaction of the FDA; • the results of our clinical trials or the clinical trials conducted by third party academic institutions and included in our application package may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA for marketing approval; • the FDA may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; • the FDA may require that we conduct additional clinical trials; • the FDA may not approve the formulation, labeling or specifications of either Viaskin Peanut or Viaskin Milk; • the clinical research organizations, or CROs, that we retain to conduct our clinical trials may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical trials; • the FDA may find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials insufficient to demonstrate that either the Viaskin Peanut’s or Viaskin Milk’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; 11 Table of Contents • the FDA may disagree with our analysis or interpretation of data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites; • if our BLA, if and when submitted, is reviewed by an advisory committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; • the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as a condition of approval or post-approval; • the FDA may restrict the use of our products to a narrow population; • the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory agency may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract; or • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Any of these factors, many of which are beyond our control, could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully market any of our Viaskin patch product candidates. Moreover, because our business is almost entirely dependent upon Viaskin technology, any such setback in our pursuit of regulatory approval would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our Product Candidates Are Expected To Undergo Clinical Trials That Are Time-consuming And Expensive, The Outcomes Of Which Are Unpredictable, And For Which There Is A High Risk Of Failure. If Clinical Trials Of Our Product Candidates Fail To Satisfactorily Demonstrate Safety And Efficacy To The FDA And Other Regulators, We, Or Our Collaborators, May Incur Additional Costs Or Experience Delays In Completing, Or Ultimately Be Unable To Complete, The Development And Commercialization Of These Product Candidates. Pre-clinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and unpredictable processes that can be subject to extensive delays. We cannot guarantee that any clinical trials will be conducted as planned or completed on schedule, if at all. It may take several years to complete the pre-clinical testing and clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug or biologic, and delays or failure can occur at any stage. Interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials, and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. The design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product, and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. An unfavorable outcome in one or more trials would be a major setback for our product candidates and for us. Due to our limited financial resources, an unfavorable outcome in one or more trials may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more product development programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and on the value of the ADSs. In connection with clinical testing and trials, we face a number of risks, including: • a product candidate is ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or has unacceptable side effects; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested, especially during the double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenges; 12 Table of Contents • extension studies on long-term tolerance could invalidate the use of our product, showing Viaskin does not generate a sustained protective effect; • the results may confirm an absence of statistically significant therapeutic effect of Viaskin Peanut in adolescents and/or adults, as observed in the ARACHILD pilot trial and our recently completed VIPES trial; • the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier testing or trials; and • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. The results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical trials. The prior clinical trials of Viaskin patch product candidates showed favorable safety and efficacy data; however, we may have different enrollment criteria in our future clinical trials. As a result, we may not observe a similarly favorable safety and efficacy profile as our prior clinical trials. In addition, we cannot assure you that in the course of potential widespread use in future, some drawbacks would not appear in maintaining production quality, protein stability or allergenic strength. Frequently, product candidates developed by pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have shown promising results in early pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, but have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If we do not successfully complete pre-clinical and clinical development, we will be unable to market and sell our product candidates and generate revenues. Even if we do successfully complete clinical trials, those results are not necessarily predictive of results of additional trials that may be needed before a BLA may be submitted to the FDA. Although there are a large number of drugs and biologics in development in the United States and other countries, only a small percentage result in the submission of a BLA to the FDA, even fewer are approved for commercialization, and only a small number achieve widespread physician and consumer acceptance following regulatory approval. If our clinical trials are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. In Our Clinical Trials, We Utilize An Oral Food Challenge Procedure Intentionally Designed To Trigger An Allergic Reaction, Which Could Be Severe Or Life-Threatening. In accordance with our food allergy clinical trial protocols, we utilize a double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge procedure. This consists of giving the offending food protein to patients in order to assess the sensitivity of their food allergy, and thus the safety and efficacy of our product candidates versus placebo. The food challenge protocol is meant to induce objective symptoms of an allergic reaction. These oral food challenge procedures can potentially trigger anaphylaxis or potentially life-threatening systemic allergic reactions. Even though these procedures are well-controlled, standardized and performed in highly specialized centers with intensive care units, there are inherent risks in conducting a trial of this nature. An uncontrolled allergic reaction could potentially lead to serious or even fatal reactions. Any such serious clinical event could potentially adversely affect our clinical development timelines, including a complete clinical hold on our food allergy clinical trials. We may also become liable to subjects who participate in our clinical trials and experience any such serious or fatal reactions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, stock price or financial condition. Delays, Suspensions And Terminations In Our Clinical Trials Could Result In Increased Costs To Us And Delay Or Prevent Our Ability To Generate Revenues. Human clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to design, implement and complete. The completion of trials for Viaskin Peanut, Viaskin Milk or our other product candidates may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; 13 Table of Contents • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs, and clinical trial sites; • validating test methods to support quality testing of the drug substance and drug product; • obtaining sufficient quantities of the drug substance or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining approval of an investigational new drug, or IND, application from the FDA; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective clinical trial site; • determining dosing and clinical design and making related adjustments; and • patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including: • lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation; • serious adverse events relating to the double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge procedure when testing patients for the sensitivity of their allergies; • inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue clinical trials or development programs, which are very expensive; • the need to sequence clinical trials as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources; • our inability to enter into collaborations relating to the development and commercialization of our product candidates; • failure by us or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • our inability or the inability of our collaborators to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines, including mandated changes in the scope or design of clinical trials or requests for supplemental information with respect to clinical trial results; • failure of our collaborators to advance our product candidates through clinical development; • delays in patient enrollment, variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials, and lower-than anticipated retention rates for patients in clinical trials; • difficulty in patient monitoring and data collection due to failure of patients to maintain contact after treatment; 14 Table of Contents • a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; and • varying interpretations of our data, and regulatory commitments and requirements by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. Many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of our BLA for our product candidate. If we experience delay, suspensions or terminations in a clinical trial, the commercial prospects for the related product candidate will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed or such revenues could be reduced or fail to materialize. In addition, we may encounter delays or product candidate rejections based on new governmental regulations, future legislative or administrative actions, or changes in FDA or other similar foreign regulatory agency policy or interpretation during the period of product development. If we obtain required regulatory approvals, such approvals may later be withdrawn. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may result in: • varying interpretations of data and commitments by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies; and • diminishment of any competitive advantages that such product candidates may have or attain. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during this regulatory process, we may encounter or be subject to: • diminishment of any competitive advantages that such product candidates may have or attain; • delays or termination in clinical trials or commercialization; • refusal by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecutions. If Our Product Candidates Are Not Approved By The FDA, We Will Be Unable To Commercialize Them In The United States. The FDA must approve any new drug or biologic before it can be commercialized, marketed, promoted or sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA with data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that demonstrate that, among other things, our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is inherently uncertain as to outcome. We must provide data to ensure the identity, strength, quality and purity of the drug substance and drug product. Also, we must assure the FDA that the characteristics and performance of the clinical batches will be replicated consistently in the commercial batches. We will not obtain approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a BLA, if at all. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new or repositioned product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will receive FDA approval in the future, and the time for receipt of any such approval is currently incapable of estimation. 15 Table of Contents A Fast Track Designation By The FDA May Not Actually Lead To A Faster Development Or Regulatory Review Or Approval Process. We have obtained fast track designation for Viaskin Peanut, and we may pursue that designation for other product candidates as well. If a product is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and nonclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. The FDA has broad discretion whether or not to grant this designation, and even if we believe our product candidates are eligible for this designation, we cannot be sure that the FDA would decide to grant it. Even if we do have fast track designation, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw fast track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. A Breakthrough Therapy Designation By The FDA For Our Product Candidates May Not Lead To A Faster Development Or Regulatory Review Or Approval Process, And It Does Not Increase The Likelihood That Our Product Candidates Will Receive Marketing Approval. We have obtained breakthrough therapy designation for Viaskin Peanut in children, 6 to 11 years of age, and we may pursue that designation for other product candidates as well. A breakthrough therapy is defined as a product that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. For product candidates that have been designated as breakthrough therapies, interaction and communication between the FDA and the sponsor of the trial can help identify the most efficient path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens. Such designation also offers an intensive and efficient review involving FDA senior managers and experienced review and regulatory health project management staff across disciplines. A breakthrough therapy designation affords the possibility of rolling review, enabling the agency to review portions of the marketing application before submission of a complete application, and priority review if supported by clinical data at the time of our BLA submission. Designation as a breakthrough therapy is within the discretion of the FDA. Accordingly, even if we believe that our product candidates, in addition to Viaskin Peanut, meet the criteria for designation as a breakthrough therapy, the FDA may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. In any event, the receipt of a breakthrough therapy designation for a product candidate may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to products considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the FDA. In addition, even if one or more of our product candidates qualify as breakthrough therapies, the FDA may later decide that the products no longer meet the conditions for qualification. The Approval Process Outside The United States Varies Among Countries And May Limit Our Ability To Develop, Manufacture And Sell Our Products Internationally. Failure To Obtain Marketing Approval In International Jurisdictions Would Prevent Our Product Candidates From Being Marketed Abroad. In order to market and sell our product candidates in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we, and our collaborators, must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing. We may conduct clinical trials for, and seek regulatory approval to market, our product candidates in countries other than the United States. Depending on the results of clinical trials and the process for obtaining regulatory approvals in other countries, we may decide to first seek regulatory approvals of a product candidate in countries other than the United States, or we may simultaneously seek regulatory approvals in the United States and other countries. If we or our collaborators seek marketing approvals for a product candidate outside the United States, we will be subject to the regulatory requirements of health authorities in each country in which we seek approvals. With respect to marketing authorizations in Europe, we will be required to submit a European marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the EMA which conducts a validation and scientific approval process in evaluating a product for safety and efficacy. The approval procedure varies among regions and countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approvals may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. 16 Table of Contents Pursuing regulatory approvals from health authorities in countries outside the United States is likely to subject us to all of the risks associated with pursuing FDA approval described above. In addition, marketing approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, and approval by foreign health authorities does not ensure marketing approval by the FDA. Even If We, Or Our Collaborators, Obtain Marketing Approvals For Our Product Candidates, The Terms Of Approvals And Ongoing Regulation Of Our Products May Limit How We Or They Market Our Products, Which Could Materially Impair Our Ability To Generate Revenue. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, this approval may carry conditions that limit the market for the product or put the product at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. For instance, a regulatory approval may limit the indicated uses for which we can market a product or the patient population that may utilize the product, or may be required to carry a warning in its labeling and on its packaging. Products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. These restrictions could make it more difficult to market any product candidate effectively. Accordingly, assuming we, or our collaborators, receive marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, we, and our collaborators will continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance. Any Of Our Product Candidates For Which We, Or Our Collaborators, Obtain Marketing Approval In The Future Could Be Subject To Post-marketing Restrictions Or Withdrawal From The Market And We, And Our Collaborators, May Be Subject To Substantial Penalties If We, Or They, Fail To Comply With Regulatory Requirements Or If We, Or They, Experience Unanticipated Problems With Our Products Following Approval. Any of our product candidates for which we, or our collaborators, obtain marketing approval in the future, as well as the manufacturing processes, post-approval studies and measures, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such products, among other things, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, including the FDA requirement to implement a REMS to ensure that the benefits of a drug or biological product outweigh its risks. The FDA may also impose requirements for costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product, such as long term observational studies on natural exposure. The FDA and other agencies, including the Department of Justice, closely regulate and monitor the post-approval marketing and promotion of products to ensure that they are manufactured, marketed and distributed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. The FDA imposes stringent restrictions on manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label use and if we, or our collaborators, market any of our product candidates for which we, or they, receive marketing approval for treatment other than their approved indications, we, or they, may be subject to warnings or enforcement action for off-label marketing. Violation of the FDCA and other statutes, including the False Claims Act, relating to the promotion and advertising of prescription drugs may lead to investigations or allegations of violations of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and state consumer protection laws. If We Do Not Achieve Our Projected Development And Commercialization Goals In The Timeframes We Announce And Expect, The Commercialization Of Our Product Candidates May Be Delayed, And Our Business Will Be Harmed. We sometimes estimate for planning purposes the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development objectives. These milestones may include our expectations regarding the commencement or completion of scientific studies, clinical trials, the submission of regulatory filings, or commercialization objectives. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones, such as the completion of an ongoing clinical trial, the initiation of other clinical programs, receipt of marketing approval, or a commercial launch of a product. The achievement of many of these milestones may be outside of our control. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions which may cause the timing of achievement of the milestones to vary considerably from our estimates, including: • our available capital resources or capital constraints we experience; 17 Table of Contents • the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trials and research and development activities, including the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and collaborators, and our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria; • our receipt of approvals, if any, by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; • other actions, decisions or rules issued by regulators; • our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of compounds used in the manufacture of our product candidates; • the efforts of our collaborators with respect to the commercialization of our products; and • the securing of, costs related to, and timing issues associated with, product manufacturing as well as sales and marketing activities. If we fail to achieve announced milestones in the timeframes we expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed, our business and results of operations may be harmed, the trading price of the ADSs or ordinary shares may decline. Access To Raw Materials And Products Necessary For The Conduct Of Clinical Trials And Manufacturing Of Our Product Candidates Is Not Guaranteed. We are dependent on third parties for the supply of various materials, chemical or biological products that are necessary to produce patches for our clinical trials or diagnosis patches. The supply of these materials could be reduced or interrupted at any time. In such case, we may not be able to find other suppliers of acceptable materials in appropriate quantities at an acceptable cost. If key suppliers or manufacturers are lost or the supply of materials is diminished or discontinued, we may not be able to continue to develop, manufacture and market our product candidates or products in a timely and competitive manner. In addition, these materials are subject to stringent manufacturing processes and rigorous testing. Delays in the completion and validation of facilities and manufacturing processes of these materials could adversely affect our ability to complete trials and commercialize our products in a cost-effective and timely manner. To prevent such situations, we intend to diversify our supply sources by identifying at a minimum a second source of supply for critical raw materials and materials, such as natural protein and polymer film with a titanium coating. If we encounter difficulties in the supply of these materials, chemicals or biological products, if we were not able to maintain our supply agreements or establish new agreements to develop and manufacture our products in the future, our business, prospects, financial condition, results and development could be significantly affected. Relying On Third-party Manufacturers May Result In Delays In Our Clinical Trials And Product Introductions. We Or The Third Parties Upon Whom We Depend May Be Adversely Affected By Earthquakes Or Other Natural Disasters And Our Business Continuity And Disaster Recovery Plans May Not Adequately Protect Us From A Serious Disaster. Developing and commercializing new medicines entails significant risks and expenses. Our clinical trials may be delayed if third-party manufacturers are unable to assure a sufficient quantity of the drug product to meet our study needs. Currently, we have only one manufacturer for peanut protein extract, an active pharmaceutical ingredient used in our Viaskin Peanut clinical trials. If such manufacturer cannot manufacture the peanut protein extract as required by us in a timely manner, we may not be able to find a substitute manufacturer on a timely basis and our clinic trials may be delayed. If our clinical trials are delayed, our commercialization efforts may be impeded, or our costs may increase. 18 Table of Contents Once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any manufacturers with which we contract are required to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the launch of products based on our product candidates into the market. Moreover, the constituent parts of a combination product retain their regulatory status (as a biologic or device, for example) and, as such, we or our contract manufacturers may be subject to additional requirements in the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, applicable to medical devices, such as design controls, purchasing controls, and corrective and preventive action. Failure by third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, revocation or suspension of marketing approval for any products granted pre-market approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions. Earthquakes or other natural disasters could severely disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If a natural disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our headquarters, that damaged critical infrastructure, such as the manufacturing facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers, or that otherwise disrupted operations, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The disaster recovery and business continuity plans we have in place may prove inadequate in the event of a serious disaster or similar event. We may incur substantial expenses as a result of the limited nature of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, which, particularly when taken together with our lack of earthquake insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We Rely, And Will Rely In The Future, On Third Parties To Conduct Our Clinical Trials And Perform Data Collection And Analysis, Which May Result In Costs And Delays That Prevent Us From Successfully Commercializing Product Candidates. We rely, and will rely in the future, on medical institutions, clinical investigators, CROs, contract laboratories, and collaborators to perform data collection and analysis and others to carry out our clinical trials. Our development activities or clinical trials conducted in reliance on third parties may be delayed, suspended, or terminated if: • the third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet regulatory obligations or expected deadlines; • we replace a third party; or • the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical protocols, regulatory requirements, or for other reasons. Third party performance failures may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval, and delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. While we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, in the event that we seek such alternative sources, we may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without incurring delays or additional costs. Even If Collaborators With Which We Contract In The Future Successfully Complete Clinical Trials Of Our Product Candidates, Those Candidates May Not Be Commercialized Successfully For Other Reasons. Even if we contract with collaborators that successfully complete clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates, those candidates may not be commercialized for other reasons, including: • failing to receive regulatory approval to market them as drugs; 19 Table of Contents • being subject to proprietary rights held by others; • failing to obtain approval from regulatory authorities on the manufacturing of our products; • being difficult or expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale; • having adverse side effects that make their use less desirable; • failing to compete effectively with products or treatments commercialized by competitors; or • failing to show long-term risk/benefit ratio of our products. Our Viaskin Product Candidates May Not Be Able To Be Manufactured Profitably On A Large Enough Scale To Support Commercialization. To date, our Viaskin product candidates have only been manufactured at a scale which is adequate to supply our research activities and clinical trials. There can be no assurance that the procedures currently used to manufacture our product candidates will work at a scale which is adequate for commercial needs and we may encounter difficulties in the production of Viaskin patches due to our or our partners’ manufacturing capabilities. We have not built commercial-scale manufacturing facilities, and we have limited manufacturing experience with Viaskin patches. We are working to develop a commercial-scale version of our electrospray manufacturing tool, but cannot predict or control issues that may arise with its development. These difficulties could delay the commercialization of our product candidates, reduce sales of our products, if approved, or increase our costs, any of which could harm our business. We rely on a single supplier to produce, or contract for the production of, active ingredients for our clinical trials and for our commercial supplies of any future approved products. Even if we were to obtain access to quantities of active ingredients sufficient to allow us otherwise to expand our Viaskin manufacturing capabilities, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of the product at an acceptable cost, or at all. In the event our Viaskin product candidates cannot be manufactured in sufficient quantities for commercialization, our future prospects could be significantly impacted and our financial prospects would be materially harmed. We May Enter Into Agreements With Third Parties To Sell And Market Any Products We Develop And For Which We Obtain Regulatory Approvals, Which May Affect The Sales Of Our Products And Our Ability To Generate Revenues. Given our development stage, we have limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. However, if our product candidates obtain marketing approval, we intend to develop sales and marketing capacity, either alone or with strategic partners by contracting with, or licensing, them to market any of our products. Outsourcing sales and marketing in this manner may subject us to a variety of risks, including: • our inability to exercise control over sales and marketing activities and personnel; • failure or inability of contracted sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • disputes with third parties concerning sales and marketing expenses, calculation of royalties, and sales and marketing strategies; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with sales and marketing. If we are unable to partner with a third party that has adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, we may have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and ability to generate product revenues. Our Product Candidates Are Regulated As Biological Products, Or Biologics, Which May Subject Them To Competition Sooner Than Anticipated. The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, was enacted as part of the 2010 enactments of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, the ACA, to establish an abbreviated licensure pathway for biological products shown to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, an FDA-licensed biological reference product. “Biosimilarity” means that the biological product is highly similar to the reference product notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components and there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency of the product. To meet the higher standard of “interchangeability,” an applicant must provide sufficient information to show biosimilarity and demonstrate that the biological product can be expected to produce the same clinical result as the reference product in any given patient and, if the biological product is administrated more than once to an individual, the risk in terms of safety or diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the biological product and the reference product is not greater than the risk of using the reference product without such alternation or switch. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar or interchangeable product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the reference product was first licensed, and the FDA will not even accept an application for review until four years after the date of first 20 Table of Contents licensure. The law is evolving, complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement BPCIA may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products. We believe that any of our product candidates approved as a biological product under a BLA should qualify for the 12-year period of exclusivity. However, there is a risk that this exclusivity could be shortened due to congressional action or otherwise, potentially creating the opportunity for biosimilar or interchangeable competition sooner than anticipated. Moreover, the process by which an interchangeable product, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products (i.e., drugs) is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing and subject to interpretation. Even If Any Of Our Product Candidates Are Commercialized, They May Not Be Accepted By Physicians, Patients, Or The Medical Community In General. Even If We, Or Our Collaborators, Are Able To Commercialize Our Product Candidates, The Products May Become Subject To Market Conditions That Could Harm Our Business. Even if the medical community accepts a product as safe and efficacious for its indicated use, physicians may choose to restrict the use of the product if we or any collaborator is unable to demonstrate that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our product is preferable to any existing drugs or treatments. We cannot predict the degree of market acceptance of any product candidate that receives marketing approval, which will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of the product; • the approved labeling for the product and any required warnings; • the advantages and disadvantages of the product compared to alternative treatments; • our and any collaborator’s ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of the product; • the coverage and reimbursement policies of government and commercial third-party payors pertaining to the product; and • the market price of our product relative to competing treatments. We Are Dependent On A Single Exclusive Distributor For The Marketing Of Our Diallertest Milk Diagnostic Product. We May Discontinue Our Diallertest Milk Program. In 2004, we introduced to the French market Diallertest Milk, the first ready-to-use patch test for detecting CMPA in young children. Diallertest Milk is the only product that we market to date, and is exclusively distributed in France though a distributor. Diallertest Milk is currently available on the French market with a temporary exception status. Regulatory authorities are requesting a pivotal Phase III clinical trial to complete the marketing authorization file. We are examining the relevance of carrying out this clinical protocol, and are evaluating potential marketing and/or distribution relationships to market this product in Europe in the field of pediatrics. We may also elect, or may be required at the request of regulatory authorities, to stop the marketing of Diallertest Milk. If we were to stop the marketing of Diallertest Milk, or if our current or future distributors struggle to market this product in European markets, our ability to generate revenue from these product sales would be materially adversely effected. We cannot assure you that these product revenues will continue in the future and in any event we do not currently expect these product revenues to have a materially positive impact on our business and financial condition in future periods. 21 Table of Contents We Face Substantial Competition From Companies With Considerably More Resources And Experience Than We Have, Which May Result In Others Discovering, Developing, Receiving Approval For, Or Commercializing Products Before Or More Successfully Than Us. The biopharmaceuticals industry is highly competitive. Numerous biopharmaceutical laboratories, biotechnology companies, institutions, universities and other research entities are actively involved in the discovery, research, development and marketing of therapeutic responses to treat allergies making it a highly competitive field. We have competitors in a number of jurisdictions, many of which have substantially greater name recognition, commercial infrastructures and financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. Although we believe we are currently in a unique position with respect to the testing and treatment of food allergies in young children, established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make the Viaskin patch products obsolete or uneconomical. Any new product that competes with an approved product may need to demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety to be commercially successful. Other competitive factors, including generic competition, could force us to lower prices or could result in reduced sales. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to Viaskin patch products. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. In the case of food allergies, we are aware of several academic studies that are currently being conducted in major centers and hospitals worldwide. These studies are evaluating sublingual, subcutaneous, intranasal or other forms of desensitization or products using synthetic allergens, denatured allergens or combinations of medicines or methods, or medicines using traditional methods such as Chinese herbs. We are not aware of any pharmaceutical development in conjunction with these academic efforts at this time. We expect studies combining other methods of immunotherapy, such as oral immunotherapy, or OIT, with anti-IgE treatments will be conducted. These types of co-administrations may significantly improve the safety of specific immunotherapies administered orally or subcutaneously, and may become significant competitors with our products. To our knowledge, other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also seeking to develop food allergy treatments, although many are in the discovery or pre-clinical stages. For example, Allergen Research Corporation is currently evaluating in Phase II clinical trials a formulation of peanut flour for oral administration intended for oral desensitization. We are aware of other companies that are working on recombinant peanut proteins capable of initiating an attenuated immune response of using subcutaneous administration. We are also aware that Sanofi S.A. has entered into licensing agreements of discovery platforms in selected food allergies, notably with Immune Design Corp. and Selecta Biosciences Inc. and may pose a competitive risk to our products in the future. Government Restrictions On Pricing And Reimbursement, As Well As Other Healthcare Payor Cost-containment Initiatives, May Negatively Impact Our Ability To Generate Revenues If We Obtain Regulatory Approval To Market A Product. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect one or more of the following: • our ability or our collaborators’ ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved; • our ability or our collaborators’ ability to obtain and maintain market acceptance by the medical community and patients; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and • the availability of capital. The ACA is expected to significantly impact the provision of, and payment for, health care in the United States. Various provisions of the ACA take effect over the next several years, and are designed to expand Medicaid eligibility, subsidize insurance premiums, provide incentives for businesses to provide health care benefits, prohibit denials of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, establish 22 Table of Contents health insurance exchanges, and provide additional support for medical research. More recently, both the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, include, among other things, mandatory reductions in Medicare payments to certain providers. Additional legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, could influence the purchase of medicines and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. This could harm our or our collaborators’ ability to market any products and generate revenues. Cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and the effect of further healthcare reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any of our product candidates approved in the future, and could cause an increase in our compliance, manufacturing, or other operating expenses. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for biopharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Historically, biopharmaceutical products launched in the European Union do not follow price structures of the United States and generally tend to have significantly lower prices. We believe that pricing pressures at the federal and state levels in the United States, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential products that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or any of our future collaborators. Our Product Candidates May Cause Undesirable Side Effects That Could Delay Or Prevent Their Regulatory Approval, Limit The Commercial Profile Of An Approved Label, Or Result In Significant Negative Consequences Following Marketing Approval, If Any. Our product candidates are being developed to address the needs of severely allergic patients, for some of whom coming into contact with even minute amounts of an allergen can have a profound and life-threatening adverse reaction. Accordingly, safety is of paramount importance in developing these product candidates. To date four clinical trials of Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk product candidates have been conducted both outside and inside of the United States in over 400 human subjects to evaluate the safety and efficacy of these product candidates for the treatment of peanut allergies and milk allergies. Adverse events observed in these clinical trials have primarily involved general disorders and administration site conditions, such as erythema, pruritus, edema, and urticaria. It is worth noting that, as a desensitization patch bringing the allergen into contact with the skin, Viaskin patch product candidates can, in severely allergic patients, cause some erythematous or eczema skin reactions, which are a source of itching and discomfort for the patient. This reaction is typically temporary in duration and fades after a few weeks of use. In addition, during daily administration of the patches during treatments, depending on the severity of the allergies and patient response to treatment, precautionary measures are necessary when handling the patches after use due to risk of contamination. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, halt or terminate clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Further, if our Viaskin patch product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by the products (or any other similar products) after the approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw or limit their approval of the products; 23 Table of Contents • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “boxed” warning or a contraindication; • we may be required to change the way the products are distributed or administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the products; • we may decide to remove the products from the marketplace; • we could be sued and held liable for injury caused to individuals exposed to or taking our products; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our products and significantly impact our ability to successfully commercialize our products and generate revenues. Our Future Growth Depends, In Part, On Our Ability To Penetrate Foreign Markets, Where We Would Be Subject To Additional Regulatory Burdens And Other Risks And Uncertainties. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to commercialize Viaskin patch product candidates in markets within and without the United States and Europe. If we commercialize Viaskin patch product candidates in foreign markets, we would be subject to additional risks and uncertainties, including: • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory, tax, accounting and legal requirements; • different medical practices and customs in foreign countries affecting acceptance in the marketplace; • import or export licensing requirements; • longer accounts receivable collection times; • longer lead times for shipping; • language barriers for technical training; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, and related prevalence of generic alternatives to therapeutics; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • patients’ ability to obtain reimbursement for Viaskin patch products in foreign markets; and • the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. Foreign sales of Viaskin patch products could also be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. We Are Subject To Healthcare Laws And Regulations, Which Could Expose Us To Criminal Sanctions, Civil Penalties, Contractual Damages, Reputational Harm And Diminished Profits And Future Earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and others will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of Viaskin patch products, if approved. Our arrangements with such persons and third-party payors will expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we research, market, sell and distribute Viaskin patch products, if we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations include but are not limited to the following: • The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or rebate), directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of any item, good, facility or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. 24 Table of Contents • The federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws impose criminal and civil penalties, including those from civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease, or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. • The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or knowingly and willingly falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. • HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, which impose certain requirements on covered entities and their business associates, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. • The federal transparency requirements under the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the ACA, that require applicable manufacturers of covered drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to track and annually report to CMS payments and other transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members in those companies or group purchasing organizations. • Analogous state or foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state marketing and/or transparency laws applicable to manufacturers that may be broader in scope than the federal requirements, state laws that require biopharmaceutical companies to comply with the biopharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect as HIPAA. Ensuring that our business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations were found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment and exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could substantially disrupt our operations. If the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. 25 Table of Contents Changes In Regulatory Requirements, FDA Guidance Or Guidance From Certain European Regulatory Authorities Or Unanticipated Events During Our Clinical Trials Of Viaskin Patch Products May Occur, Which May Result In Changes To Clinical Trial Protocols Or Additional Clinical Trial Requirements, Which Could Result In Increased Costs To Us And Could Delay Our Development Timeline. Changes in regulatory requirements, FDA guidance or guidance from certain European regulatory authorities or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may force us to amend clinical trial protocols or the FDA or certain European regulatory authorities may impose additional clinical trial requirements. These discussions have caused us to adjust certain trial protocols. Similar amendments to our clinical trial protocols would require resubmission to the FDA and IRBs for review and approval, which may adversely impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays completing, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, or if we are required to conduct additional clinical trials, the commercial prospects for the Viaskin patch product candidates, or any other product candidates, may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed. The FDA And Other Regulatory Agencies Actively Enforce The Laws And Regulations Prohibiting The Promotion Of Off-label Uses. If We Are Found To Have Improperly Promoted Off-label Uses, We May Become Subject To Significant Liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products, such as Viaskin patch products, if approved. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. If we receive marketing approval for Viaskin patch products as a treatment for a particular allergy, physicians, in their professional medical judgment, may nevertheless prescribe Viaskin patch products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability under the FDCA and other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. If we cannot successfully manage the marketing of Viaskin patch products, if approved, by restricting off-label promotion, we could become subject to significant liability, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We May Not Obtain Biopharmaceutical Company Status And Therefore Have To Rely On Contract Manufacturers Indefinitely. To date, we do not have biopharmaceutical company status, or PCS, and therefore, cannot manufacture the product candidates that we develop in France. A company with premises located in France must submit an application to the French Drug and Health Products Safety Agency, or ANSM, in order to get PCS status. The ANSM grants PCS to a company upon evaluation and determination that such company’s premises has adequate personnel, procedure and organization. We intend to seek PCS when our Viaskin patch product candidates have received MAA and thereby have the ability to manufacture our product candidates without contracting third parties. There are two types of PCS: (1) distributor “exploitant” status, which permits medicines to be marketed directly in France by the company after demonstrating control of certain key functions such as pharmacovigilance, medical information and advertising, management of quality complaints and batch recall; and (2) manufacturer status, which permits the manufacturing and quality control of medicines after demonstrating adequate manufacturing and quality control premises that exhibit a quality assurance system that meets cGMP. Failure to obtain PCS status would force us to revise our strategy. First, failure to obtain manufacturer status would force us to entrust the manufacturing and control of the therapeutic products to one or more specialized contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, as is the case with the current production of our clinical lots. Second, if distributor “exploitant” status was not obtained, we could not conduct a direct commercial approach to the French market and would therefore have to enter into marketing license agreements with other biopharmaceutical companies. Failure to obtain any of the two types of PCS status would affect the production and marketing of our product candidates, once approved, and could be detrimental to our business, earnings, financial conditions and growth prospects. 26 Table of Contents Our Product Development Programs For Candidates Other Than Viaskin Patch Products May Require Substantial Financial Resources And May Ultimately Be Unsuccessful. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize products to treat common food and/or environmental allergies. In addition to the development of Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk, we may pursue development of our other development programs, including Viaskin HDM. None of our other potential product candidates has commenced any clinical trials, and there are a number of FDA requirements that we must satisfy before we can commence clinical trials. Satisfaction of these requirements will entail substantial time, effort and financial resources. We may never satisfy these requirements. Any time, effort and financial resources we expend on our other development programs may adversely affect our ability to continue development and commercialization of Viaskin Peanut and Viaskin Milk, and we may never commence clinical trials of such development programs despite expending significant resources in pursuit of their development. If we do commence clinical trials of our other potential product candidates, such product candidates may never be approved by the FDA. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a program or programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations. If We Do Not Secure Collaborations With Strategic Partners To Test, Commercialize And Manufacture Certain Product Candidates Outside Of Food Allergies, We May Not Be Able To Successfully Develop Products And Generate Meaningful Revenues. A key aspect of our current strategy is to selectively enter into collaborations with third parties to conduct clinical testing, as well as to commercialize and manufacture product candidates outside food allergies. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators’ abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. We currently have multiple collaboration agreements in effect, including collaborations for the development of applications in the field of respiratory allergies or autoimmune disease, as well as other therapeutic domains, such as vaccines. Collaboration agreements typically call for milestone payments that depend on successful demonstration of efficacy and safety, obtaining regulatory approvals, and clinical trial results. Collaboration revenues are not guaranteed, even when efficacy and safety are demonstrated. The current economic environment may result in potential collaborators electing to reduce their external spending, which may prevent us from developing our product candidates. Even if we succeed in securing collaborators, the collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our product candidates. Collaborations involving our product candidates pose a number of risks, including the following: • collaborators may not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as budget limitations, lack of human resources, or a change in strategic focus; • collaborators may believe our intellectual property is not valid, is not infringed by potential competitors or is unenforceable or the product candidate infringes on the intellectual property rights of others; • collaborators may dispute their responsibility to conduct development and commercialization activities pursuant to the applicable collaboration, including the payment of related costs or the division of any revenues; • collaborators may decide to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration arrangement; • collaborators may not be able to obtain, or believe they cannot obtain, the necessary regulatory approvals; or • collaborators may delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates in favor of developing or commercializing another party’s product candidate. Thus, collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. 27 Table of Contents Collaboration agreements are generally terminable without cause on short notice. Once a collaboration agreement is signed, it may not lead to commercialization of a product candidate. We also face competition in seeking out collaborators. If we are unable to secure new collaborations that achieve the collaborator’s objectives and meet our expectations, we may be unable to advance our product candidates and may not generate meaningful revenues. Intellectual Property Risks Related to Our Business Our Ability To Compete May Decline If We Do Not Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Rights. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product candidates for the treatment of common food and/or environmental allergies, as well as successfully defending these rights against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates, and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, or effectively protected trade secrets, cover them. Our ability to obtain patent protection for our product candidates is uncertain due to a number of factors, including: • we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or issued patents; • we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product candidates or the compositions we developed or for their uses; • others may independently develop identical, similar or alternative products or compositions and uses thereof; • our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability; • any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • we may not seek or obtain patent protection in countries that may eventually provide us a significant business opportunity; • any patents issued to us may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide any competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties; • our compositions and methods may not be patentable; • others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents; or • others may identify prior art or other bases which could invalidate our patents. Even if we have or obtain patents covering our product candidates or compositions, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. Others may have filed, and in the future may file, patent applications covering compositions or products that are similar or identical to ours. There are many issued U.S. and foreign patents relating to chemical compounds and therapeutic products, and some of these relate to compounds we intend to commercialize. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the allergy treatment field in which we are developing products. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell our products if approved. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or compositions may infringe. These patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. Obtaining and maintaining a patent portfolio entails significant expense and resources. Part of the expense includes periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees, various other governmental fees on patents and/or applications due in several stages over the lifetime of patents and/or applications, as well as the cost associated with complying with numerous procedural provisions during the patent application process. We may or may not choose to pursue or maintain protection for particular inventions. In addition, there 28 Table of Contents are situations in which failure to make certain payments or noncompliance with certain requirements in the patent process can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we choose to forgo patent protection or allow a patent application or patent to lapse purposefully or inadvertently, our competitive position could suffer. Legal actions to enforce our patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. In addition, these legal actions could be unsuccessful and could also result in the invalidation of our patents or a finding that they are unenforceable. We may or may not choose to pursue litigation or other actions against those that have infringed on our patents, or used them without authorization, due to the associated expense and time commitment of monitoring these activities. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Biopharmaceutical Patents And Patent Applications Involve Highly Complex Legal And Factual Questions, Which, If Determined Adversely To Us, Could Negatively Impact Our Patent Position. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The interpretation and breadth of claims allowed in some patents covering biopharmaceutical compositions may be uncertain and difficult to determine, and are often affected materially by the facts and circumstances that pertain to the patented compositions and the related patent claims. The standards of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, are sometimes uncertain and could change in the future. Consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings, post-grant review and/or inter partes review in the USPTO. Foreign patents may be subject also to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office, which could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination, post-grant review, inter partes review and opposition proceedings may be costly. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes. In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us, or may limit the number of patents or claims we can obtain. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing any potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. Developments In Patent Law Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Business. From time to time, the United States Supreme Court, or the Supreme Court, other federal courts, the United States Congress, the USPTO or similar foreign authorities may change the standards of patentability and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in 2011, includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These changes include a transition from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system, changes to the way issued patents are challenged, and changes to the way patent applications are disputed during the examination process. These changes may favor larger and more established companies that have greater resources to devote to patent application filing and prosecution. The USPTO has developed new and untested regulations and procedures to govern the full implementation of the America Invents Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the America Invents Act, and, in particular, the first-to-file provisions, became effective on March 16, 2013. Substantive changes to patent law associated with the 29 Table of Contents America Invents Act may affect our ability to obtain patents, and if obtained, to enforce or defend them. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the America Invents Act will have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications, our ability to obtain patents based on our discoveries and our ability to enforce or defend any patents that may issue from our patent applications, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If We Are Unable To Protect The Confidentiality Of Our Trade Secrets, Our Business And Competitive Position Would Be Harmed. In addition to patent protection, because we operate in the highly technical field of development of therapies, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We expect to enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. In addition to contractual measures, we try to protect the confidential nature of our proprietary information using physical and technological security measures. Such measures may not, for example, in the case of misappropriation of a trade secret by an employee or third party with authorized access, provide adequate protection for our proprietary information. Our security measures may not prevent an employee or consultant from misappropriating our trade secrets and providing them to a competitor, and recourse we take against such misconduct may not provide an adequate remedy to protect our interests fully. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret can be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Trade secrets may be independently developed by others in a manner that could prevent legal recourse by us. If any of our confidential or proprietary information, such as our trade secrets, were to be disclosed or misappropriated, or if any such information was independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be harmed. We Will Not Seek To Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights In All Jurisdictions Throughout The World And We May Not Be Able To Adequately Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights Even In The Jurisdictions Where We Seek Protection. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our product candidates in all countries and jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States could be less extensive than those in the United States, assuming that rights are obtained in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. The statutory deadlines for pursuing patent protection in individual foreign jurisdictions are based on the priority dates of each of our patent applications. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we do not pursue and obtain patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Even if we pursue and obtain issued patents in particular jurisdictions, our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent third parties from so competing. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other 30 Table of Contents intellectual property protection, especially those relating to biopharmaceuticals or biotechnologies. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents, if obtained, or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, many foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of intellectual property. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license. Third Parties May Assert Ownership Or Commercial Rights To Inventions We Develop. Third parties may in the future make claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our intellectual property. We have written agreements with collaborators that provide for the ownership of intellectual property arising from our collaborations. These agreements provide that we must negotiate certain commercial rights with collaborators with respect to joint inventions or inventions made by our collaborators that arise from the results of the collaboration. In some instances, there may not be adequate written provisions to address clearly the resolution of intellectual property rights that may arise from a collaboration. If we cannot successfully negotiate sufficient ownership and commercial rights to the inventions that result from our use of a third-party collaborator’s materials where required, or if disputes otherwise arise with respect to the intellectual property developed with the use of a collaborator’s samples, we may be limited in our ability to capitalize on the market potential of these inventions. In addition, we may face claims by third parties that our agreements with employees, contractors, or consultants obligating them to assign intellectual property to us are ineffective, or in conflict with prior or competing contractual obligations of assignment, which could result in ownership disputes regarding intellectual property we have developed or will develop and interfere with our ability to capture the commercial value of such inventions. Litigation may be necessary to resolve an ownership dispute, and if we are not successful, we may be precluded from using certain intellectual property, or may lose our exclusive rights in that intellectual property. Either outcome could have an adverse impact on our business. Third Parties May Assert That Our Employees Or Consultants Have Wrongfully Used Or Disclosed Confidential Information Or Misappropriated Trade Secrets. We employ individuals who were previously employed at universities or other biopharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of a former employer or other third parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees. 31 Table of Contents A Dispute Concerning The Infringement Or Misappropriation Of Our Proprietary Rights Or The Proprietary Rights Of Others Could Be Time Consuming And Costly, And An Unfavorable Outcome Could Harm Our Business. There is significant litigation in the biopharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If our development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses to such patents. A patentee could prevent us from using the patented drugs or compositions. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. From time to time, we may hire scientific personnel or consultants formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. Either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of prior affiliations. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our cash position and the price of the ADSs. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products; or • us or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our cash position and business and financial condition. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future product candidates. We May Infringe The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others, Which May Prevent Or Delay Our Product Development Efforts And Stop Us From Commercializing Or Increase The Costs Of Commercializing Our Product Candidates, If Approved. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that our business, products and methods do not or will not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may allege that our product candidates or the use of our technologies infringes patent claims or other intellectual property rights held by them or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Patent and other types of intellectual property litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and their outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to intellectual property infringement that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney’s fees if we are found to be willfully infringing another party’s patents, for past use of the asserted intellectual property and royalties and other consideration going forward if we are forced to take a license. In addition, if any such claim were successfully asserted against us and we could not obtain such a license, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, selling or otherwise commercializing Viaskin patch products. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court, or redesign our products. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease developing, selling or otherwise commercializing our product candidates; 32 Table of Contents • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • in the case of trademark claims, redesign, or rename, Viaskin, Diallertest or other trademarks we may own, to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and, even if possible, could be costly and time-consuming. Any of these risks coming to fruition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Issued Patents Covering Our Product Candidates Could Be Found Invalid Or Unenforceable If Challenged In Court. If we or one of our licensing partners initiated legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our product candidate, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent covering our product candidate is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge include alleged failures to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for unenforceability assertions include allegations that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, even outside the context of litigation. Such mechanisms include re-examination, post grant review and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, e.g., opposition proceedings. Such proceedings could result in revocation or amendment of our patents in such a way that they no longer cover our product candidates or competitive products. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to validity, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection would have a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Organization, Structure and Operation We Will Need To Develop And Expand Our Company, And We May Encounter Difficulties In Managing This Development And Expansion, Which Could Disrupt Our Operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had 56 full-time employees and we expect to significantly increase our number of employees and the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated development and expansion, including the commercialization of our product candidates in North America, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from its day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these development activities. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. This may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our product candidates. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected development and expansion, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates, if approved, and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage the future development and expansion of our company. 33 Table of Contents We Depend On Key Personnel And Attracting Qualified Management Personnel And Our Business Could Be Harmed If We Lose Key Personnel And Cannot Attract New Personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the technical and management skills of our officers and key personnel, including in particular those of Pierre-Henri Benhamou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Bertrand Dupont, our Chief Technical Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals would likely have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, marketing, technical, and sales executives and personnel. The loss of any of our key executives, or the failure to attract, integrate, motivate, and retain additional key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete for such personnel against numerous companies, including larger, more established companies with significantly greater financial resources than we possess. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our Employees May Engage In Misconduct Or Other Improper Activities, Including Violating Applicable Regulatory Standards And Requirements Or Engaging In Insider Trading, Which Could Significantly Harm Our Business. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to: comply with the regulations of the FDA and applicable non-U.S. regulators, provide accurate information to the FDA and applicable non-U.S. regulators, comply with fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of, including trading on, information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a code of conduct, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may be ineffective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Product Liability And Other Lawsuits Could Divert Our Resources, Result In Substantial Liabilities And Reduce The Commercial Potential Of Our Product Candidates. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of biopharmaceutical products. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we develop could result in the deterioration of a patient’s condition, injury or even death. For example, product liability claims may be brought by patients participating in our clinical trials as a result of unexpected side effects from our product candidates. Once a product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits increases. Criminal or civil proceedings might be filed against us by patients, the regulatory authorities, biopharmaceutical companies and any other third party using or marketing our products. These actions could include claims resulting from acts by our partners, licensees and subcontractors, over which we have little or no control. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the affected products. We may be subject to legal or administrative proceedings and litigation other than product liability lawsuits which may be costly to defend and could materially harm our business, financial condition and operations. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with an €11.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, in the 34 Table of Contents future, we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product or other legal or administrative liability claims by us or our partners, licensees or subcontractors, which could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our business. Product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our products successfully. We Must Maintain Effective Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, And If We Are Unable To Do So, The Accuracy And Timeliness Of Our Financial Reporting May Be Adversely Affected, Which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Investor Confidence And Market Price. We must maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in order to accurately and timely report our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures semi-annually and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year. We anticipate being first required to issue management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in connection with issuing our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ending December 31, 2015. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. These stringent standards require that our audit committee be advised and regularly updated on management’s review of internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation. This process is time-consuming, costly, and complicated. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our annual report following the date on which we are no longer an “emerging growth company”. We may cease to qualify as an emerging growth company as soon as December 31, 2015, as a result of which we would be required to comply with these requirements in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that will be applicable to us as a public company. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain internal control over financial reporting adequate to meet the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and reputation may be harmed and the price of the ADSs may decline. Furthermore, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected, which could cause a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Failure To Maintain Certain Tax Benefits Applicable To French Technology Companies May Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations. As a French technology company, we have benefited from certain tax advantages, including, for example, the CIR. The CIR is a French tax credit aimed at stimulating research and development. The CIR can be offset against French corporate income tax due and the portion in excess (if any) may be refunded at the end of a three fiscal-year period. The CIR is calculated based on our claimed amount of eligible research and development expenditures in France and represented €2.5 million, €3.3 million and €4.3 million as of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The French tax authority with the assistance of the Research and Technology Ministry may audit each research and development program in respect of which a CIR benefit has been claimed and assess whether such program qualifies in its view for the CIR benefit. The French tax authorities may challenge our eligibility to, or our calculation of certain tax reductions and/or deductions in respect of our research and development activities and, should the French tax authorities be successful, we may be liable to additional corporate income tax, and penalties and interest related thereto, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations and future cash flows. Furthermore, if the French Parliament decides to eliminate, or reduce the scope or the rate of, the CIR benefit, either of which it could decide to do at any time, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents We May Be Forced To Repay Conditional Advances Prematurely If We Fail To Comply With Our Contractual Obligations Under The Applicable Innovation Grant Agreements. Since inception, we have received multiple conditional advances totaling €5.7 million for innovation granted by OSEO, the French Agency for Innovation and part of the Banque Publique d’Investissement. If we fail to comply with our contractual obligations under the applicable innovation grant agreements, including if we lose our exclusive right to commercially develop our product candidates, we could be forced to repay the sums advanced ahead of schedule. Such premature repayment could adversely affect our ability to finance its research and development projects. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will then have the additional financial means needed, the time or the ability to replace these financial resources with others. We May Be Exposed To Significant Foreign Exchange Risk. Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Adversely Affect The Foreign Currency Value Of Our ADSs. We incur portions of our expenses, and may in the future derive revenues, in currencies other than the euro, in particular, the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We currently do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the euro. Therefore, for example, an increase in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar could be expected to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings growth as U.S. dollar revenue and earnings, if any, would be translated into euros at a reduced value. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ADSs are quoted in U.S. dollars on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and our ordinary shares are trading in euros on Euronext Paris. Our financial statements are prepared in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between euros and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other matters, the U.S. dollar value and the euro value of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We May Use Hazardous Chemicals And Biological Materials In Our Business. Any Claims Relating To Improper Handling, Storage Or Disposal Of These Materials Could Be Time Consuming And Costly. Our research and development processes may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. For example, in production, the confinement of the electrospray function and the use of the allergen in liquid form make it possible to prevent the allergens from contaminating the environment. However, we cannot assure you that in case of malfunction during the handling, storage or production process, allergen would not be released into the atmosphere and sensitize the persons present in the environment. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed any insurance coverage and our total assets. Federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the discharge of pollutants into the environment and human health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and may impair our research and development efforts. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including civil or criminal fines and penalties, clean-up costs or capital expenditures for control equipment or operational changes necessary to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, we cannot predict the impact on our business of new or amended environmental laws or regulations or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. Our Internal Computer Systems, Or Those Of Our Third-party Contractors Or Consultants, May Fail Or Suffer Security Breaches, Which Could Result In A Material Disruption Of Our Product Development Programs. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our third-party contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we do not believe that we have experienced any such system failure, accident, or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption 36 Table of Contents of our programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or applications or other data or applications relating to our technology or product candidates, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liabilities and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed. We May Acquire Businesses Or Products, Or Form Strategic Alliances, In The Future, And We May Not Realize The Benefits Of Such Acquisitions. At this stage, our strategy does not involve plans to acquire companies or technologies facilitating or enabling us to access to new medicines, new research projects, or new geographical areas, or enabling us to express synergies with our existing operations. However, if such acquisitions were to become necessary in future, we may not be able to identify appropriate targets or make acquisitions under satisfactory conditions, in particular, satisfactory price conditions. In addition, we may unable to obtain the financing for these acquisitions under favorable conditions, and could be led to finance these acquisitions using cash that could be allocated to other purposes in the context of existing operations. If we acquire businesses with promising markets or technologies, we may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We may encounter numerous difficulties in developing, manufacturing and marketing any new products resulting from a strategic alliance or acquisition that delay or prevent us from realizing their expected benefits or enhancing our business. We cannot assure you that, following any such acquisition, we will achieve the expected synergies to justify the transaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, earnings and prospects. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The Market Price For The ADSs May Be Volatile Or May Decline Regardless Of Our Operating Performance. The trading price of the ADSs has fluctuated, and is likely to continue to fluctuate, substantially. The trading price of the ADSs depends on a number of factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Since the ADSs were sold at our public offering in October 2014 at a price of $21.64 per share, the price per ADS has ranged as low as $20.26 and as high as $28.50 through April 24, 2015. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; • announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations, or capital commitments; • failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of the ADSs; • additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel; 37 Table of Contents • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes to coverage policies or reimbursement levels by commercial third-party payors and government payors and any announcements relating to coverage policies or reimbursement levels; • announcement or expectation of additional debt or equity financing efforts; • sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs by us, our insiders or our other shareholders; and • general economic and market conditions. These and other market and industry factors may cause the market price and demand for the ADSs to fluctuate substantially, regardless of our actual operating performance, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their ADSs and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of the ADSs. In addition, the stock market in general, and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Share Ownership Is Concentrated In The Hands Of Our Principal Shareholders And Management, Who Will Continue To Be Able To Exercise A Direct Or Indirect Controlling Influence On Us. Our executive officers, directors, current 5% or greater shareholders and affiliated entities, including Sofinnova Capital V FPCI, entities affiliated with Bpifrance and entities affiliated with Baker Bros. Advisors LP, together beneficially own approximately 41.97% of our ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other shareholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other shareholders may view as beneficial. If Securities Or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research Or Publish Inaccurate Or Unfavorable Research About Our Business, The Price Of The ADSs And Trading Volume Could Decline. The trading market for the ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for the ADSs would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades the ADSs or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, or downgrades the ADSs, demand for the ADSs could decrease, which could cause the price of the ADSs or trading volume to decline. We Do Not Currently Intend To Pay Dividends On Our Securities And, Consequently, Your Ability To Achieve A Return On Your Investment Will Depend On Appreciation In The Price Of The ADSs. In Addition, French Law May Limit The Amount Of Dividends We Are Able To Distribute. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your ADSs for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in ADSs will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. Consequently, investors may need to sell all or part of their holdings of ADSs after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. There is no guarantee that the ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased the ADSs. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase the ADSs. 38 Table of Contents Further, under French law, the determination of whether we have been sufficiently profitable to pay dividends is made on the basis of our statutory financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with IFRS. In addition, payment of dividends may subject us to additional taxes under French law. Please see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F titled “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association” for further details on the limitations on our ability to declare and pay dividends and the taxes that may become payable by us if we elect to pay a dividend. Therefore, we may be more restricted in our ability to declare dividends than companies not based in France. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may affect the amount of euros that we are able to distribute, and the amount in U.S. dollars that our shareholders receive upon the payment of cash dividends or other distributions we declare and pay in euros, if any. These factors could harm the value of the ADSs, and, in turn, the U.S. dollar proceeds that holders receive from the sale of the ADSs. Future Sales Of Ordinary Shares Or ADSs By Existing Shareholders Could Depress The Market Price Of The ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market, the trading price of the ADSs could decline significantly. As of March 24, 2015, 19,372,486 shares were eligible for sale in the public market, 6,147,285 of which shares are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, the ordinary shares subject to outstanding options under our equity incentive plans and the shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans and ordinary shares subject to outstanding warrants will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. We have filed a registration statement with the SEC covering ordinary shares available for future issuance under our equity incentive plans. Sales of a large number of the shares issued under these plans in the public market could have an adverse effect on the market price of the ADSs. Our By-Laws And French Corporate Law Contain Provisions That May Delay Or Discourage A Takeover Attempt. Provisions contained in our by-laws and the corporate laws of France, the country in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, provisions of our by-laws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions include the following: • under French law, a non-resident of France may have to file an administrative notice with French authorities in connection with a direct or indirect investment in us, as defined by administrative rulings; see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F titled “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association”; • a merger (i.e., in a French law context, a share for share exchange following which our company would be dissolved into the acquiring entity and our shareholders would become shareholders of the acquiring entity) of our company into a company incorporated in the European Union would require the approval of our board of directors as well as a two-thirds majority of the votes held by the shareholders present, represented by proxy or voting by mail at the relevant meeting; • a merger of our company into a company incorporated outside of the European Union would require 100% of our shareholders to approve it; • under French law, a cash merger is treated as a share purchase and would require the consent of each participating shareholder; • our shareholders have granted and may grant in the future our board of directors broad authorizations to increase our share capital or to issue additional ordinary shares or other securities (for example, warrants) to our shareholders, the public or qualified investors, including as a possible defense following the launching of a tender offer for our shares; 39 Table of Contents • our shareholders have preferential subscription rights on a pro rata basis on the issuance by us of any additional securities for cash or a set-off of cash debts, which rights may only be waived by the extraordinary general meeting (by a two-thirds majority vote) of our shareholders or on an individual basis by each shareholder; • our board of directors has the right to appoint directors to fill a vacancy created by the resignation or death of a director, subject to the approval by the shareholders of such appointment at the next shareholders’ meeting, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our board of directors can only be convened by our chairman or our managing director, if any, or, when no board meeting has been held for more than two consecutive months, by directors representing at least one third of the total number of directors; • our board of directors meetings can only be regularly held if at least half of the directors attend either physically or by way of videoconference or teleconference enabling the directors’ identification and ensuring their effective participation in the board’s decisions; • our shares are nominative or bearer, if the legislation so permits, according to the shareholder’s choice. Shares issued are registered in individual accounts opened by us or any authorized intermediary, in the name of each shareholder and kept according to the terms and conditions laid down by the legal and regulatory provisions; • approval of at least a majority of the votes held by shareholders present, represented by a proxy, or voting by mail at the relevant ordinary shareholders’ general meeting is required to remove directors with or without cause; • advance notice is required for nominations to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholders’ meeting, except that a vote to remove and replace a director can be proposed at any shareholders’ meeting without notice; • our by-laws can be changed in accordance with applicable laws; • the crossing of certain thresholds has to be disclosed and can impose certain obligations; see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F titled “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association”; • transfers of shares shall comply with applicable insider trading rules; and • pursuant to French law, the sections of the by-laws relating to the number of directors and election and removal of a director from office may only be modified by a resolution adopted by 66 2/3% of the votes of our shareholders present, represented by a proxy or voting by mail at the meeting. You May Not Be Able To Exercise Your Right To Vote The Ordinary Shares Underlying Your ADSs. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our ordinary shares, the depositary will fix a record date for the determination of ADS holders who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights. Upon timely receipt of notice from us, if we so request, the depositary shall distribute to the holders as of the record date (1) the notice of the meeting or solicitation of consent or proxy sent by us and (2) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. You may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot guarantee you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares or to 40 Table of Contents withdraw your ordinary shares so that you can vote them yourself. If the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions from you, it may give a proxy to a person designated by us to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your Right As A Holder Of ADSs To Participate In Any Future Preferential Subscription Rights Or To Elect To Receive Dividends In Shares May Be Limited, Which May Cause Dilution To Your Holdings. According to French Law, if we issue additional securities for cash, current shareholders will have preferential subscription rights for these securities on a pro rata basis unless they waive those rights at an extraordinary meeting of our shareholders (by a two-thirds majority vote) or individually by each shareholder. However, the ADS holders in the United States will not be entitled to exercise or sell such rights unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. Further, if we offer holders of our ordinary shares the option to receive dividends in either cash or shares, under the deposit agreement the depositary may require satisfactory assurances from us that extending the offer to holders of ADSs does not require registration of any securities under the Securities Act before making the option available to holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings or to elect to receive dividends in shares and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. You May Be Subject To Limitations On The Transfer Of Your ADSs And The Withdrawal Of The Underlying Ordinary Shares. Your ADSs, which may be evidenced by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason subject to your right to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares. Temporary delays in the cancellation of your ADSs and withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares may arise because the depositary has closed its transfer books or we have closed our transfer books, the transfer of ordinary shares is blocked to permit voting at a shareholders’ meeting or we are paying a dividend on our ordinary shares. In addition, you may not be able to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares when you owe money for fees, taxes and similar charges and when it is necessary to prohibit withdrawals in order to comply with any laws or governmental regulations that apply to ADSs or to the withdrawal of ordinary shares or other deposited securities. We Are An “Emerging Growth Company” And Will Be Able To Avail Ourselves Of Reduced Disclosure Requirements Applicable To Emerging Growth Companies, Which Could Make Our ADSs Less Attractive To Investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we have taken advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those 41 Table of Contents standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Some investors may find the ADSs less attractive because we rely on these exemptions and, as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the ADSs and the price of the ADSs may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of October 22, 2014, the date of our global offering; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. As A Foreign Private Issuer, We Are Exempt From A Number Of Rules Under The U.S. Securities Laws And Are Permitted To File Less Information With The SEC Than A U.S. Company. This May Limit The Information Available To Holders Of ADSs. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as defined in the SEC’s rules and regulations and, consequently, we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to public companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act, including the U.S. proxy rules under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, while we currently make annual and semi-annual filings with respect to our listing on Euronext Paris and expect to file financial reports on an annual and semi-annual basis, we will not be required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic issuers and will not be required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act. Accordingly, there will be less publicly available information concerning our company than there would be if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. As A Foreign Private Issuer, We Are Permitted To Adopt Certain Home Country Practices In Relation To Corporate Governance Matters That Differ Significantly From Nasdaq Corporate Governance Listing Standards. These Practices May Afford Less Protection To Shareholders Than They Would Enjoy If We Complied Fully With Corporate Governance Listing Standards. As a foreign private issuer listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we will be subject to corporate governance listing standards. However, rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in France, which is our home country, may differ significantly from corporate governance listing standards. For example, neither the corporate laws of France nor our by-laws require a majority of our directors to be independent and we could include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee, and our independent directors would not necessarily hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Currently, we intend to follow home country practice to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would have under corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We May Lose Our Foreign Private Issuer Status In The Future, Which Could Result In Significant Additional Cost And Expense. While we currently qualify as a foreign private issuer, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on June 30, 2015. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if we to fail to meet the requirements necessary to maintain our foreign private issuer status as of the relevant determination date. For example, if more than 50% of our securities are held by U.S. residents and more than 50% of our executive officers or members of our board of directors are residents or citizens of the United States, we could lose our foreign private issuer status. As of January 15, 2015, approximately 48.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares were held by U.S. residents. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than costs we incur as a foreign private issuer. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive in certain respects than the forms 42 Table of Contents available to a foreign private issuer. We would be required under current SEC rules to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, rather than IFRS, in US dollars rather than euros and modify certain of our policies to comply with corporate governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion of our financial statements to U.S. GAAP will involve significant time and cost. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers such as the ones described above and exemptions from procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies. U.S. Investors May Have Difficulty Enforcing Civil Liabilities Against Our Company And Directors And Senior Management And The Experts Named In This Annual Report. Certain members of our board of directors and senior management, and those of our subsidiary, are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or us in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them or us based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the United States. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. In particular, there is some doubt as to whether French courts would recognize and enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in France. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered but is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in France will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. The United States and France do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. The Rights Of Shareholders In Companies Subject To French Corporate Law Differ In Material Respects From The Rights Of Shareholders Of Corporations Incorporated In The United States. We are a French company with limited liability. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by the laws governing companies incorporated in France. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors are in many ways different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. For example, in the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by French law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, rather than solely our shareholders and/or creditors. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. See the sections of this Annual Report on Form 20-F titled “Item 10. B—Memorandum and Articles of Association” and “Item 16.G—Corporate Governance.” We May Be At Risk Of Securities Class Action Litigation. Historically, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant share price volatility in recent years. If we were to be sued, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. 43 Table of Contents We Believe That We Were Classified As A Passive Foreign Investment Company For 2014, And Certain U.S. Holders Of Our ADSs May Suffer Adverse U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences. Generally, if, for any taxable year, at least 75% of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, including cash, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. For purposes of these tests, passive income includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. If we are characterized as a PFIC, U.S. holders of the ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of the ADSs treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on the ADSs by individuals who are U.S. holders, and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of sales of the ADSs. See “Item 10.E—Taxation—Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Our status as a PFIC will depend on the composition of our income and the composition and value of our assets (which, if we are not a “controlled foreign corporation” under Section 957(a) of the Code or we are publicly traded for the entire year being tested, may be determined in large part by reference to the market value of the ADSs and our ordinary shares, which may be volatile) from time to time. Our status may also depend, in part, on how quickly we utilize the cash proceeds from our global offering in our business. Although it is not free from doubt, based on the composition of our income for our 2014 taxable year, we believe that we were a PFIC for our 2014 taxable year. 