Item 1A. Risk Factors We face many challenges and risks in the industry in which we operate. Before investing in our shares you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including under the section titled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”, and in our other reports filed with the SEC, and the documents and other information incorporated by reference herein and therein, for a detailed discussion of known material factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones we face. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.Risks Relating to Our BusinessOur business is cyclical and dependent upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, which impact the level of exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas and capital expenditures by oil and natural gas companies. Our customers’ willingness to undertake exploration and production activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas. If these expenditures decline, our business will suffer. The oil and gas industry has traditionally been volatile, is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and is influenced by a combination of long-term, short-term and cyclical trends. Our customers’ willingness to conduct drilling, completion and production activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: •the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including current natural gas storage capacity and usage;•the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain production levels for oil;•the current and expected future prices for oil and natural gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices;•the supply of and demand for hydraulic fracturing and other well service equipment in the United States;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing activities;•the expected rates of decline of current oil and natural gas production;•lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of personnel;•regulation of drilling activity;•the discovery and development rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;•available pipeline and other transportation capacity;•weather conditions, including hurricanes that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area;•political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;•domestic and worldwide economic conditions;•technical advances affecting energy consumption;•the price and availability of alternative fuels; and•merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers.Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease or remain depressed) generally leads to decreased spending by our customers, which in turn negatively impacts drilling, completion and production activity. In particular, the demand for new or existing drilling, completion and production work is driven by available investment capital for such work. When these capital investments decline, our customers’ demand for our services declines. Because these types of services can be easily “started” and “stopped,” and oil and natural gas producers generally tend to be less risk tolerant when commodity prices are low or volatile, we typically experience a more 15rapid decline in demand for our services compared with demand for other types of energy services. Any negative impact on the spending patterns of our customers may cause lower pricing and utilization for our core service lines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Spending by exploration and production companies can also be impacted by conditions in the capital markets. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause exploration and production companies to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if oil prices remain at current levels or natural gas prices increase from current levels. Any such cuts in spending may cause our customers to curtail their drilling programs, including completion and production activities and any discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for our services, and the rates we can charge and the utilization of our assets. Moreover, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves, in our market areas, whether due to increased governmental regulation, limitations on exploration and drilling activity or other factors, could also have a material adverse impact on our business, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment.Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling, completion and production activities by oil and natural gas companies and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, or if oil or natural gas prices remain low or decline further, the demand for our services could be adversely affected.The demand for our services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for drilling, completion and production activities, which are affected by short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices, including current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of drilling, completion and production activities, historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be highly volatile. For example, during 2015, oil prices were as high as $61 per barrel and as low as $35 per barrel, and entering 2016 we have seen them fall as low as $27 per barrel. In line with the sustained weakness and volatility in oil prices over the course of 2015, we experienced a significant decline in drilling, completion and production activities across our customer base, which resulted in reduced demand and increased competition and pricing pressure to varying degrees across our service lines and operating areas. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by OPEC, affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and natural gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity and other factors that will be beyond our control may also affect the supply of, demand for, and price of oil and natural gas. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower completion and production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our services and cause lower pricing and utilization levels for our services. If oil and natural gas prices continue to remain low or decline further, or if there is a further reduction in drilling and completion activities, the demand for our services and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We participate in a capital-intensive industry, and we may not be able to finance future growth of our operations or future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operations and financial position.Since the beginning of 2011, our growth has been funded by cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and the net proceeds we received from our initial public offering, which closed on August 3, 2011. As of December 31, 2015, we had $121.0 million outstanding under our Revolver and $12.6 million in letters of credit, and as of February 23, 2016, we had $251.0 million outstanding under our Revolver and $12.6 million in letters of credit, leaving $36.4 million available for additional borrowing based on $300.0 million of Revolver availability. As a result, we have limited ability to borrow under our Revolver until amounts outstanding have been repaid. Please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources -Description of Our Credit Agreement” in Part II, Item 7 of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information about our Revolver and other facilities under our Credit Agreement, including the financial and other restrictive covenants contained therein. We expect to depend on recent drawings made on our Revolving Credit Facility for a portion of our future capital needs. We may draw all or a portion of the remaining $36.4 million available for additional borrowing under the Revolver in ordinary course to fund operations, build cash or other general corporate purposes. In the event we draw the full amount available under our Revolver, we will no longer have the ability to draw additional funds from the Revolver until some or all of the outstanding borrowings have been repaid. As a result, absent the issuance of additional securities, alternative financing arrangements or the repayment of outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, cash flow from operations and our existing cash on hand may be the sole source of funding for our operations16The successful execution of our growth strategy depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows and/or raise additional capital as needed. Our ability to fund future growth depends on our performance, which is impacted by factors beyond our control, including financial, business, economic and other factors, such as potential changes in customer preferences and pressure from competitors. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or to obtain additional capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to continue growing our business, conduct necessary corporate activities, take advantage of business opportunities that arise or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, which may adversely impact our ability to sustain or improve our current level of profitability. Furthermore, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, and also could constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement and cause a cross default with respect to our other outstanding indebtedness, resulting in the acceleration of all such outstanding indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to generate enough cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness or are unable to use future borrowings to refinance our indebtedness or fund other capital needs, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, which may have onerous terms or may be unavailable.We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other capital needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:•refinancing or restructuring all or a portion of our debt;•obtaining alternative financing;•selling assets;•reducing or delaying capital investments;•seeking to raise additional capital; or•revising or delaying our strategic plans.However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that undertaking alternative financing plans would allow us to meet our debt obligations and capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our Credit Agreement. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.We are highly leveraged and our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.As of December 31, 2015, we had $1.2 billion of debt outstanding, excluding original issue discount, comprised of $121.0 million drawn and $12.6 million of letters of credit outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility and $1.1 billion outstanding under a Term Loan B facility, consisting of a $570.7 million term loan B-1 that matures in 2019 and a $481.4 million term loan B-2 that matures in 2021. As of February 23, 2016, we had $251.0 million outstanding under our Revolver and $12.6 million in letters of credit, leaving $36.4 million available for borrowing, based on $300.0 million of Revolver availability. The additional draws of $130.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility since December 31, 2015 will result in approximately $1.1 million of additional interest expense for the first quarter of 2016. Should we decide to draw all or some portion of the remaining $36.4 million available under our Revolver during the first quarter of 2016, we would incur additional amounts of interest cost to do so.As a result of our current indebtedness, we have limited ability to borrow additional funds from the Revolver until some or all of the outstanding borrowings have been repaid. We expect to depend on recent drawings made on our Revolving Credit Facility for a portion of our future capital needs. We may draw all or a portion of the remaining $36.4 million available for additional borrowing under the Revolver in ordinary course to fund operations, build cash or other general corporate purposes. In the event we draw the full amount available under our Revolver, we will no longer have the ability to draw additional funds from the Revolver until some or all of the outstanding borrowings have been repaid. As a result, absent the issuance of additional securities, alternative financing arrangements or the repayment of outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, cash flow from operations and our existing cash on hand may be the sole source of funding for our operations.17C&J’s substantial indebtedness could have negative consequences that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, such as: •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operating activities to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements;•increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt;•to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and•preventing our ability to buy back our common shares or pay cash dividends.We may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms.Our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations under, and comply with the financial covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement depends on our future performance, which is affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. Should our revenues decline, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due. Additionally, in the event that utilization and pricing levels for our services remain at or near existing levels, we may not remain in compliance with one or more of the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement in future periods. Any failure to satisfy our debt obligations or to comply with the applicable financial covenants under the Credit Agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with, or obtain relief from, the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we may trigger an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon such an event of default, the lenders may refuse to fund borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and would have the right to terminate the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility and potentially accelerate all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. An acceleration under the Credit Agreement could also cause a cross default or cross acceleration of our other outstanding indebtedness. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under one or more of the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets or businesses at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. The inability to refinance the debt or access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results from operations and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We are subject to restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement, which may restrict our operational flexibility.The Credit Agreement governing our indebtedness contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct necessary corporate activities, take advantage of business opportunities that arise and/or to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, including a maximum Total Leverage Ratio based on net consolidated indebtedness to EBITDA and a minimum Interest Expense Ratio requiring a minimum quarterly ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. On September 29, 2015, the Company obtained a waiver and entered into certain amendments to the Credit Agreement that, among other things, (1) suspended the quarterly maximum Total Leverage Ratio and quarterly minimum Interest Coverage Ratio covenants, commencing with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2015 and continuing through the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2017 and (2) implemented new financial covenants that apply in lieu of the quarterly maximum Total Leverage Ratio and quarterly minimum Interest Coverage Ratio covenants, including a quarterly minimum EBITDA covenant, commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2015 and running through the quarter ending June 30, 2017.Specifically, the restrictive covenants limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to, among other things: •sell or otherwise dispose of assets;•make certain restricted payments and investments;•create, incur, assume, suffer to exist or guarantee additional indebtedness;18•create, incur, assume, or suffer to exist liens on our assets;•make capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions;•repurchase, redeem or retire our capital shares;•merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries;•engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; and•pursue other corporate activities.We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by restrictive covenants under the Credit Agreement, which could: limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, to meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plan; and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.Please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources - Description of Our Credit Agreement” in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information about the Credit Agreement, including the financial and other restrictive covenants contained therein.Our Credit Agreement has substantial restrictions and financial covenants which we may not be in compliance with in future periods. Noncompliance with these restrictions and financial covenants would result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement and could also cause a cross default or cross acceleration of all our other outstanding indebtedness and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The Credit Agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist liens or indebtedness, sell or otherwise dispose of our assets, make certain restricted payments and investments, enter into transactions with affiliates and prepay certain indebtedness. The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with certain financial metrics. Please see “Liquidity and Capital Resources - Description of Our Credit Agreement” in Part II, Item 7 of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information about our Revolver and other facilities under our Credit Agreement, including the financial and other restrictive covenants contained therein; see also Note 2 - Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Our ability to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and other events or circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. Our cash flow is highly dependent on utilization levels and pricing for our services, which have declined substantially as demand for our services significantly decreased due to the sustained weakness in commodity prices. In the event that utilization and pricing levels for our services remain at or near existing levels for a sustained period, we may be unable to comply with one or more financial covenants in future periods.If we are unable to comply with, or obtain relief from, the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, or if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we may trigger an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Noncompliance with these financial covenants would result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement and could also cause a cross default or cross acceleration of all our other outstanding indebtedness. If an event of default occurs under the Credit Agreement, or if other debt agreements cross default, the lenders under one or more of the affected debt agreements could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.If the lenders under one or more of the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets or businesses at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. We have pledged a significant portion of our and our subsidiaries’ assets as collateral and if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.The oilfield services industry is highly competitive with significant potential for excess capacity. We may not be able to meet the specific needs of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies at competitive prices which could adversely affect our business and operating results.19The oilfield services industry is highly competitive. The principal competitive factors in our markets are generally technical expertise, the availability and condition of equipment, work force capability, safety record, reputation and experience. We compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial resources and greater name recognition than we do and who can operate at a loss in the regions in which we operate. Additionally, some of our competitors provide a broader array of services and/or have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. Our reputation for safety and quality may not be sufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive position, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, significant increases in overall market capacity have caused active price competition and led to lower pricing and utilization levels for our services. Completion and well servicing equipment, such as hydraulic fracturing fleets, can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of equipment in an area. For example, natural gas prices declined sharply in 2009 and have remained depressed through 2015, which resulted in reduced drilling activity in natural gas shale plays. This drove many energy services companies operating in those areas to relocate their equipment to more oily- and liquids-rich shale plays, such as the Eagle Ford Shale and Permian Basin. As drilling activity and completion capacity migrated into the oily- and liquids-rich regions from the gas-rich regions, the increase in supply relative to demand negatively impacted pricing and utilization of our services, particularly for hydraulic fracturing services. Furthermore, as we entered 2015, we experienced a slowdown in activity across our customer base as operators reacted to the rapid decline in commodity prices that began during the fourth quarter of 2014. The entire year proved to be extremely challenging for the North American oilfield services industry due to the sustained weakness and volatility in oil prices at levels that caused severe reductions in drilling, completion and production activities, which in turn resulted in reduced demand and increased competition and pricing pressure to varying degrees across our service lines and operating areas.We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our core services.We generate revenue from our core service lines, the majority of which is provided on a spot market basis. Pressure on pricing for our core services, including due to competition and industry and/or economic conditions, may impact, among other things, our ability to implement price increases or maintain pricing on our core services. We operate in a very competitive industry and, as a result, we may not always be successful in raising, or maintaining our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including hydraulic fracturing equipment, may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase or maintain prices. Furthermore, during periods of declining pricing for our services, we may not be able to reduce our costs accordingly, which could further adversely affect our profitability.Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our prices or to increase our prices as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.Reliance upon a few large customers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results.Our top ten customers represented approximately 53.6%, 51.1% and 64.6% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future. If a major customer fails to pay us, revenue would be impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, if we were to lose any material customer, we may not be able to redeploy our equipment at similar utilization or pricing levels and such loss could have an adverse effect on our business until the equipment is redeployed at similar utilization or pricing levels.Delays in deliveries of key raw materials or increases in the cost of key raw materials could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.We have established relationships with a limited number of suppliers of our raw materials (such as proppant, guar, chemicals or coiled tubing) and finished products (such as fluid-handling equipment). Should any of our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary raw materials or finished products or otherwise fail to deliver the products in a timely manner and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, increasing costs of certain raw materials, 20including guar, may negatively impact demand for our services or the profitability of our business operations. In the past, our industry faced sporadic proppant shortages associated with hydraulic fracturing operations requiring work stoppages, which adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of raw materials, including proppants.If we were to experience an ownership change, we could be limited in our ability to use net operating losses arising prior to the ownership change to offset future taxable income.If we were to experience an ‘‘ownership change,’’ as determined under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change with net operating losses ("NOL's") arising prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially. An ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-change NOL's we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate.Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future.Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Joshua E. Comstock, our founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. If we lose the services of Mr. Comstock, or that of our other executive officers or key personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, although we maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Comstock, the proceeds from such insurance would not be sufficient to cover our losses in the event we were to lose his services.We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth, mergers, acquisitions and expansion.We have grown rapidly over the last several years, both organically and through acquisitions, and most notably through the Merger combining Legacy C&J with the C&P Business. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to take advantage of and manage the rapid growth that we have experienced, as well as the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: •lack of sufficient executive-level personnel;•increased administrative burden;•long lead times associated with acquiring additional equipment; •ability to manage significant levels of idle equipment in sustained periods of depressed oil and natural gas prices; and•ability to maintain the level of focused service attention that we have historically been able to provide to our customers.In addition, in the future we may seek to grow our business through acquisitions that enhance our existing operations. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties in integrating the businesses we may acquire.Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the energy services industry.Risks inherent to our industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, explosions and uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, damage to formations, damage to facilities, business interruption and damage to, or destruction of property, equipment and the environment. In addition, our hydraulic fracturing and well completion services could become a source of spills or releases of fluids, including chemicals used during hydraulic fracturing activities, at the site where such services are performed, or could result in the discharge of such fluids into underground formations that were not targeted for fracturing or well completion activities, such as potable aquifers. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages and could result in a variety of claims, losses and remedial obligations that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The existence, frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue.21Our operational personnel have experienced accidents which have, in some instances, resulted in serious injuries. Our safety procedures may not always prevent such damages. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable and commercially justifiable or on terms as favorable as our current arrangements. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers.The delivery of our services and products requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility in the energy service industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a different work environment. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. At times, demand for skilled workers in our geographic area of operations is high, and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.Weather conditions could materially impair our business.Our operations may be adversely affected by severe weather events and natural disasters. Furthermore, our customers’ operations may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. For example, hurricanes, tropical storms, heavy snow, ice or rain may result in customer delays and other disruptions to our services. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: •curtailment of services;•weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in suspension of operations;•inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules;•increase in the price of insurance; and•loss of productivity.These constraints could also delay our operations, reduce our revenue and materially increase our operating and capital costs.Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect demand for our support services.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly perform hydraulic fracturing services for our customers.Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuel and issued permitting guidance in February 2014 that applies to such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA published an advanced notice of proposed rule making under the Toxic Substances and Control Act that would require the disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids. In addition, from time to time legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process.Certain governmental reviews are also either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices and the EPA is performing a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA’s study includes 18 separate research projects addressing topics such as water acquisition, chemical mixing, well injection, flowback and produced water, and wastewater treatment and disposal. The EPA has indicated that it expects to issue its study report sometime in 2015. The EPA is also developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards sometime in 2015. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the 22Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. Depending on their results, these studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.In addition, various state and local governments have implemented, or are considering, increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure requirements, well construction, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain areas. For example, in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities and make it more difficult or costly to perform hydraulic fracturing. Any such regulations limiting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing could result in decreased oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and, therefore, adversely affect demand for our services and our business. Such laws or regulations could also materially increase our costs of compliance and doing business.The adoption of new laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and natural gas wells in shale formations, increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect the hydraulic fracturing services that we render for our exploration and production customers. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in cost, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services.The EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal CCA Act including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain preconstruction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from specified GHG emission sources, including, among others, certain oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. In addition to the EPA, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. The Obama Administration has also announced that it intends to release a series of new regulations on the oil and gas industry in 2015, including federal standards limiting methane emissions.Any new federal, regional or state restrictions on emissions of GHGs that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions on our customers. Such legislation could also potentially make our customers’ products more expensive and thus reduce demand for those products, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We are subject to extensive and costly environmental, and occupational health and safety laws, and regulations that may require us to take actions that will adversely affect our results of operations.Our business is significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the emission or discharge of substances into the environment, protection of the environment and worker health and safety. Any failure by us to comply with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the following: •issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;23•modification, denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;•imposition of limitations on our operations; and•performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.As part of our business, we handle, transport, and dispose of a variety of fluids and substances used by our customers in connection with their oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. We also generate and dispose of nonhazardous and hazardous wastes. The generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of these fluids, substances, and wastes are regulated by a number of laws, including CERCLA, RCRA, Clean Water Act, SDWA and analogous state laws. Failure to properly handle, transport or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct our operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose us to liability for governmental penalties, third-party claims, cleanup costs associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources, and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. Moreover, certain of these environmental laws impose joint and several, strict liability even though our conduct in performing such activities was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties was the basis for such liability. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and if existing laws, regulatory requirements or enforcement policies were to change in the future, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures.More stringent trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.As part of the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the DOT, and by other various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety, and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, require onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size.Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the DOT. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations.From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted.New technology may hurt our competitive position.The energy service industry is subject to the introduction of new techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or products at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws.The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making, offering or authorizing improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We do business and may do additional business in the future in countries or regions where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Violations of anti-bribery laws (either due to our acts or our inadvertence) may result in criminal and civil sanctions and could subject us to other liabilities in the U.S. and elsewhere. Even allegations of such violations could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations.24We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and our own internal policies and procedures. We have implemented policies and procedures concerning compliance with the FCPA that is disseminated to employees, directors, contractors, and agents. This policy has been implemented as part of our anti-bribery compliance program.Our existing safeguards and any future improvements, however, may prove to be less than effective, and our employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Some foreign jurisdictions may require us to utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other non-U.S. anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non-U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We do business in an international jurisdiction whose political and regulatory environment and compliance regimes differ from those in the United States.Over the past several years, we have focused on expanding our geographic reach, both domestically and internationally. With respect to our international expansion, most of our efforts have been with respect to the Middle East and we have continued to invest in the infrastructure needed to support the development of operations in that region. During 2013 we began to establish a presence in the Middle East. We opened our first international office in Dubai, where we assembled a team of sales, operational and administrative personnel, and established relationships with partners in targeted countries. In January 2014 we were awarded our first international contract to provide coiled tubing services on a trial basis in Saudi Arabia. During the first half of the year, we established coiled tubing equipment, crews and logistics on the ground in Saudi Arabia to service this contract. We mobilized on location for our customer in late June 2014 and we successfully completed our first coiled tubing job in July 2014. We completed the scheduled work under this provisional contract in September 2015, but we have maintained a facility and employees in the country. We are optimistic that our efforts can lead, over time, to a long-term relationship and additional opportunities with this customer, which we are actively pursuing. We also hope that we may be able to secure opportunities with other potential customers in the Middle East. Risks associated with operations in foreign areas, such as the Middle East, include, but are not limited to: •expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets;•renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts;•foreign exchange limitations;•foreign currency fluctuations;•foreign taxation;•the inability to repatriate earnings or capital in a tax efficient manner;•changing political conditions;•changing foreign and domestic monetary policies;•social, political, military and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business and the possibilities of war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks; and•regional economic downturns.Risks Related to Our Common SharesOur common share price has been volatile, and we expect it to continue to remain volatile in the future.The market price of common shares of companies engaged in the oil and gas services industry has been highly volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common shares has varied significantly in the past (52-week range has been $0.82 to $18.45), and we expect it to continue to remain volatile given the cyclical nature of our industry.If we cannot meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, the NYSE may delist our common shares, which would have an adverse impact on the trading volume, liquidity and market price of our common shares.On February 25, 2016, the closing price of our common shares fell below $1.00 per share. If the average closing price of our common shares were to fall below $1.00 over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, which is the minimum average share price required by the NYSE under Section 802.01C of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, we would no longer be in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing requirements and would expect to receive a notice of noncompliance from the 25NYSE. The notice would have no immediate impact on the listing of our common shares, which would continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during the six-month period described below, subject to our compliance with other continued listing standards.We would have six months following receipt of the NYSE’s notice to regain compliance with the NYSE’s minimum share price requirement. We would be able to regain compliance at any time during the six-month cure period if on the last trading day of any calendar month during the cure period our common shares has a closing share price of at least $1.00 and an average closing share price of at least $1.00 over the 30 trading-day period ending on the last trading day of such month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if we were to determine that we must cure the price condition by taking an action that will require approval of our shareholders (such as a reverse stock split), we could also regain compliance by: (i) obtaining the requisite shareholder approval by no later than our next annual meeting, (ii) implementing the action promptly thereafter, and (iii) the price of our common shares promptly exceeding $1.00 per share, and the price remaining above that level for at least the following 30 trading days. However, if at any time our common share price drops to the point where the NYSE considers the price to be "abnormally low," the NYSE has the discretion to begin delisting proceedings immediately. While there is no formal definition of "abnormally low" in the NYSE rules, the NYSE has recently delisted the common stock of issuers when it trades below $0.16 per share. In addition, the NYSE will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures if the NYSE determines that we have an average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of less than $15.0 million.A delisting of our common shares from the NYSE could negatively impact us as it would likely reduce the liquidity and market price of our common shares; reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common shares; and negatively impact our ability to access equity markets and obtain financing.Future issuances by us of common shares or convertible securities could lower our share price and dilute your ownership in us.As of February 22, 2016, we had 120,207,209 common shares outstanding. We are currently authorized to issue up to 750,000,000 common shares and 50,000,000 preferred shares with terms designated by our Board of Directors. In the future, we may, from time to time, issue additional common shares or securities convertible into common shares in public offerings or privately negotiated transactions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of common shares or securities convertible into common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition or employee benefit plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares and dilute your ownership interest in us.As a result of the Merger, the majority of our common shares are held by Nabors. Holders of our common shares will vote together as a single class on all matters presented to our shareholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable law or our memorandum of association or bye-laws. As a result of the Merger, Nabors (through one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries) currently owns approximately 52% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Although Nabors is subject to certain standstill restrictions, during the period commencing on the closing date of the Merger and ending upon the earlier to occur of the five-year anniversary of the effective date of the Merger and the date that Nabors beneficially owns less than 15% of our issued and outstanding common shares (the "Standstill Period"), Nabors has the right to vote its majority shares in its discretion. Further, Nabors has the right to ensure that three individuals who are either Nabors employees or independent directors selected by Nabors serve on our board of directors during the Standstill Period, and such individuals may remain on our board of directors following the end of the Standstill Period. In addition, until the later to occur of the termination of the Standstill Period and the two-year anniversary of the closing date of the Merger, Nabors has preemptive rights to purchase its pro-rata portion of any common shares or other equity securities issued by us. Our amended bye-laws provide that, until the fifth anniversary of the closing date of the Merger, certain major transactions, including any sale of our Company or any amendment to our memorandum of association or amended bye-laws, require the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our issued and outstanding common shares, and in certain circumstances the approval of a specified number of the members of our board of directors. As a result, Nabors may be able to prevent the approval of such matters, and therefore may be able to prevent transactions that would be beneficial to us, including a change in control of our Company or other transaction that would otherwise provide our shareholders an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares. The existence of significant shareholders may also have the effect of deterring a would-be acquirer of our Company from proposing a transaction or delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management. In addition, Nabors may be able to influence our management because of its substantial shareholding.26Under the provisions of our bye-laws , until the end of the Standstill Period, the rights of our shareholders (including Nabors) to change the amended bye-laws relating to the election of directors and the removal of directors are subject to restrictions. Additionally, any sale by Nabors of our common shares or any announcement by Nabors that it has decided to sell our common shares, or the perception by the investment community that Nabors has sold or decided to sell our common shares, could have an adverse impact on the price of our common shares.In any of these matters, the interests of Nabors may differ or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common shares to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning shares of a company with a majority shareholder.Under the rules of the NYSE, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with the requirements that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors, that its board of directors' compensation committee be comprised solely of independent directors, and that director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors for selection by independent directors. Although we qualify as a "controlled company" under the NYSE rules, we are not relying on this exemption and we intend to fully comply with all corporate governance requirements under the NYSE rules. However, if we were to utilize some or all of these exemptions, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE rules regarding corporate governance.If Nabors sells a controlling interest in C&J to a third party in a private transaction, our shareholders may not realize any change-of-control premium on our common shares and we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party.As a result of the Merger, Nabors (through one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries) currently owns approximately 52% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Nabors has agreed that, during the Standstill Period, it will transfer our common shares only to any person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) who has not filed a Schedule 13D with regard to C&J and is not required to file a Schedule 13D after giving effect to such transfer. However, following the end of the Standstill Period, or upon waiver of the standstill restrictions, should it continue to own a significant equity interest in C&J and choose to do so, Nabors may sell some or all of the C&J common shares that it owns in a privately negotiated transaction, which, if sufficient in size, could result in a change of control of C&J. The ability of Nabors to privately sell our common shares after the end of the Standstill Period, with no requirement for a concurrent offer to be made to acquire all of our other common shares, could prevent our shareholders from realizing any change-of-control premium on our common shares that may otherwise accrue to Nabors upon its private sale of our common shares. Additionally, if Nabors privately sells its significant equity interest in C&J, we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. Such third party may have conflicts of interest with other our shareholders.Provisions in our organizational documents, as well as Bermuda law, could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares.The existence of certain provisions in our memorandum of association and bye-laws, as well as under Bermuda law, could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. The provisions in our organizational documents that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include board authority to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred shares, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company. In addition, some provisions of our bye-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders, including provisions which:•limit the removal and replacement of directors, including provisions relating to the classified board of directors; •limit the ability of shareholders to increase the number of directors; •establish preemptive rights; and •establish advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors.We may issue preferred shares on terms that could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common shares. Our bye-laws authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without the approval of its shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred shares having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over its common shares respecting dividends and distributions, as the Board may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series 27of preferred shares could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common shares. For example, we might grant holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of its directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of the common shares.Future offerings of debt securities and preferred shares, which would rank senior to our common shares upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market value of our common shares.In the future, we may, from time to time, attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Our preferred shares, which may be issued without shareholder approval, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit amounts available for distribution to holders of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk that our future offerings may reduce the market value of our common shares.