ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: Market prices of wholesale shell eggs are volatile and changes in these prices and costs can adversely impact our results of operations. Our operating results are significantly affected by wholesale shell egg market prices, which fluctuate widely and are outside of our control. Small increases in production or small decreases in demand can have a large adverse effect on shell egg prices. Shell egg prices have experienced an upward trend since 2002 and rose to historical highs in late 2003 and early 2004. In the early fall of 2004, the demand trend related to the popular diets faded dramatically. During the time of increased demand, the egg industry had geared up to produce more eggs, resulting in an oversupply of eggs. In March 2005, the egg industry took action to better align the size of laying flocks with current demand needs. Current U.S. Department of Agriculture statistics indicate a reduced flock size that is now more in line with current demand. There can be no assurance that shell egg prices will remain at or near current levels and that the supply of shell eggs will remain level in the future. Retail sales of shell eggs are greatest during the fall and winter months and lowest during the summer months. Prices for shell eggs fluctuate in response to seasonal factors and a natural increase in shell egg production during the spring and early summer. Shell egg prices tend to increase with the start of the school year and are highest prior to holiday periods, particularly Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter. Consequently, we generally experience lower sales and net income in our first and fourth fiscal quarters ending in August and May, respectively. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our sales and operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful comparisons. Changes in consumer demand for shell eggs can negatively impact our business. As discussed above, demand for shell eggs has increased in recent years as a result of a number of factors. We believe that increased fast food restaurant consumption, favorable reports from the medical community regarding the health benefits of shell eggs, reduced shell egg cholesterol levels, high protein diet trends and industry advertising campaigns have all contributed to the increase in shell egg demand. However, there can be no assurance that the demand for shell eggs will not decline in the future. Adverse publicity relating to health concerns and changes in the perception of the nutritional value of shell eggs, as well as movement away from high protein diets, could adversely affect demand for shell eggs, which would have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Feed costs are volatile and changes in these costs can adversely impact our results of operations. Feed costs represent the largest element of our shell egg production (farm) cost, ranging from 52% to 64% of total farm annual cost in each of the last five fiscal years. Although feed ingredients are available from a number of sources, we have little, if any, control over the prices of the ingredients that we purchase, which are affected by various demand and supply factors and have experienced significant fluctuations in the past. Prices for corn and soybean meal, essential feed ingredients, are higher this year as compared to last year. However, there are wide swings in corn and soybean meal prices because of irregular weather patterns in the Midwest and widely varying forecast projections for the 2008 fall harvest season in September and October. Increasing demands for the use of corn and soybean in the production of renewable energy such as ethanol are also putting upward pressure on the price of these feed ingredients. Increases in feed costs which are not accompanied by increases in the selling price of shell eggs will have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. 12 Due to the cyclical nature of our business, our financial results from year to year may fluctuate. The shell egg industry has traditionally been subject to periods of high profitability followed by periods of significant loss. In the past, during periods of high profitability, shell egg producers have tended to increase the number of layers in production with a resulting increase in the supply of shell eggs, which generally has caused a drop in shell egg prices until supply and demand return to balance. As a result, our financial results from year to year may vary significantly. We purchase approximately 21% of the shell eggs we sell from outside producers and our ability to obtain such eggs at prices and in quantities acceptable to us could fluctuate. We produce approximately 79% of the total number of shell eggs sold by us and purchase the remaining amount from outside producers. As the wholesale price for shell eggs increases, our cost to acquire shell eggs from outside producers also increases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire shell eggs from outside producers in quantities and prices that are satisfactory and our inability to do so may have a material adverse affect on our business and profitability. Our acquisition growth strategy subjects us to various risks. We plan to pursue a growth strategy which includes acquisitions of other companies engaged in the production and sale of shell eggs. Acquisitions can require capital resources and divert management's attention from our existing business. Acquisitions also entail an inherent risk that we could become subject to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct prior to our acquisition of a business that were not known to us at the time of acquisition. We may also incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than we had anticipated at the time of its purchase. We cannot assure you that we: - will identify suitable acquisition candidates; - can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms; or - can successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations or successfully manage the operations of any acquired business. No assurance can be given that companies acquired by us in the future will contribute positively to our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, federal anti-trust laws require regulatory approval of acquisitions that exceed certain threshold levels of significance. The consideration we pay in connection with any acquisition also affects our financial results. If we pay cash, we could be required to use a portion of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of our Common Stock, existing stockholders may be diluted. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt. Our largest customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our net sales volume. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced purchases by, one or more of our large customers. For the fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, two affiliated customers, Wal-Mart Stores and Sam’s Clubs, on a combined basis, accounted for 36.5%, 36.9%, and 36.6% of our net sales, respectively. Our top 10 customers accounted for 66.5%, 67.4%, and 66.8% of net sales during those periods. Although we have established long-term relationships with many of our customers, we do not have contractual relationships with any of our major customers for the sale of our shell eggs. If, for any reason, one or more of our larger customers were to purchase significantly less of our shell eggs in the future or were to terminate their purchases from us, and we are not able to sell our shell eggs to new customers at comparable levels, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, could harm our operating results, financial condition and reputation. We are subject to federal and state regulations relating to grading, quality control, labeling, sanitary control and waste disposal. As a fully-integrated shell egg producer, our shell egg facilities are subject to United States Department of Agriculture, the USDA, and Food and Drug Administration, the FDA, regulation and various state and local health and agricultural agencies. Our shell egg processing facilities are subject to periodic USDA inspections. Our feed production facilities are subject to FDA regulation and inspections. Our operations and facilities are also subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation, disposal and remediation of hazardous materials. Under these laws and regulations, we are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities, including, but not limited to wastewater discharge permits. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation or permit, or fail to obtain any necessary permits, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties or other sanctions, our reputation could be harmed and our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, because these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly more stringent, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to incur significant costs for compliance with such laws and regulations in the future. Our business is highly competitive. The production and sale of fresh shell eggs, which have accounted for virtually all of our net sales in recent years, is intensely competitive. We compete with a large number of competitors that may prove to be more successful than we are in marketing and selling shell eggs. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with any or all of these companies. In addition, increased competition could result in price reductions, greater cyclicality, reduced margins and loss of market share, which would negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pressure from animal rights groups regarding the treatment of animals may subject us to additional costs to conform our practices to comply with developing standards or subject us to marketing costs to defend challenges to our current practices and protect our image with our customers. We and many of our customers are facing pressure from animal rights groups, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, and the Humane Society of the United States, to require that any companies that supply food products operate their business in a manner that treats animals in conformity with certain standards developed by these animal rights groups. As a result, we are reviewing and changing our operating procedures with respect to our flock of hens to meet some or all of these treatment standards. The treatment standards require, among other things, that we provide increased cage space for our hens and modify beak trimming and forced molting practices (the act of putting chickens into a regeneration cycle). Changing our procedures and infrastructure to conform to these guidelines has resulted and will continue to result in additional costs to our internal production of shell eggs, including cost increases from housing and feeding the increased flock population resulting from the modification of molting practices, and the cost for us to purchase shell eggs from our outside suppliers. While some of these increased costs have been passed on to our customers, we cannot provide assurance that we can continue to pass on these costs, or any additional costs we will face, in the future. 14 We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may adversely affect the implementation of our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our senior management team, including Fred R. Adams, Jr., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss or interruption of Mr. Adams' services or those of one or more of our other executive officers could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our growth strategy. We have not entered into any employment or non-compete agreements with any of our executive officers nor do we carry any significant key-man life insurance on any such persons. Agricultural risks could harm our business. Our shell egg production activities are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Unusual or extreme weather conditions, disease and pests can materially and adversely affect the quality and quantity of shell eggs we produce and distribute. If a substantial portion of our production facilities are affected by any of these factors in any given quarter or year, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have invested in auction rate securities, the market for which is currently illiquid. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for an undetermined period of time. We are exposed to risk related to our investments in auction rate securities. Liquidity for these securities is typically provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually on average every 7-35 days. Because of the short interest rate reset period, we have historically recorded them on our consolidated balance sheet as current investment securities available-for-sale. The liquidity of these securities has been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the credit markets and the exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. These securities had been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates. We will not be able to liquidate any of our auction rate securities until a future auction is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the notes are redeemed. An auction failure, which is not a default in the underlying debt instrument, occurs when there are more sellers than buyers at a scheduled interest rate auction date and parties desiring to sell their securities are unable to do so. If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. If an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. Furthermore, if the issuers of the auction rate securities are unable to successfully complete future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments by recording an impairment charge. There is no assurance as to when the market for auction rate securities will stabilize. The fair value of our auction rate securities could change significantly based on market conditions and continued uncertainties in the credit markets. If conditions in the credit markets deteriorate further causing additional auctions to fail, the funds associated with these auction rate securities may also not be accessible for an undetermined period of time, and we may be required to record losses or an impairment charge on our auction rate securities portfolio in future quarters, which may harm our financial condition. We are controlled by a principal stockholder. Fred R. Adams, Jr., our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and his spouse own 33.8% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, which has one vote per share, and Mr. Adams owns 81.3% and his son-in-law, Adolphus B. Baker, our president, chief operating officer and director, owns 18.7% of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, which has ten votes per share. Mr. Baker and his spouse also own 1.7% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. As a result, currently Mr. Adams and his spouse possess 58.9%, and Messrs. Adams and Baker and their spouses possess 69.6%, of the total voting power represented by the outstanding shares of our Common Stock and Class A Common Stock. These stockholdings include shares of our Common Stock accumulated under our employee stock ownership plan for the respective accounts of Messrs. Adams and Baker. 15 The Adams family intends to retain ownership of a sufficient amount of Common Stock and Class A Common Stock to assure its continued ownership of over 50% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock. Such ownership will make an unsolicited acquisition of us more difficult and discourage certain types of transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which the holders of Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation require that our Class A Common Stock be issued only to Fred R. Adams, Jr. and members of his immediate family, and that if shares of the Class A Common Stock, by operation of law or otherwise, are deemed not to be owned by Mr. Adams or a member of his immediate family, the voting power of any such shares shall be automatically reduced to one vote per share. The Adams family controlling ownership of our capital stock may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Based on Mr. Adams' beneficial ownership of our outstanding capital stock, we are a "controlled company," as defined in Rule 4350(c) (5) of the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market on which our shares of Common Stock are quoted. Accordingly, we are exempt from certain requirements of NASDAQ's corporate governance listing standards, including the requirement to maintain a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and the requirements regarding the determination of compensation of executive officers and the nomination of directors by independent directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 