Item 1A. Risk Factors and the following: · our operating performance and the performance of our competitors or restaurant companies in general and fluctuations in our operating results; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry; · global, national or local economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; · announcements by us or our competitors of new locations or menu items, capacity changes, strategic investments or acquisitions; · actual or anticipated variations in our or our competitors’ operating results, and our or our competitors’ growth rates; · failure by us or our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give the market; · changes in laws or regulations, or new interpretations or applications of laws and regulations, that are applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · the arrival or departure of key personnel; · the number of shares being publicly traded; · future sales or issuances of our common stock, including sales or issuances by us, our officers or directors and our significant shareholders; and · other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or 31 disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and restaurant industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes, may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. The market price of our common stock could decline due to the number of shares of common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B Units. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances of additional shares of our common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B Units, or the perception that such issuances could occur. These issuances, or the possibility that these issuances may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Approximately 13.5% of the ownership interests in J. Alexander’s Holdings, LLC are Class B Units held by certain members of our management and the Management Consultant. Based on the value of J. Alexander’s Holdings, LLC (determined primarily by reference to the trading price of our common stock) above a specified hurdle amount and time-based vesting provisions, vested Class B Units may be immediately exchanged for our common stock or, for those held by members of our management, for cash, at our option. We will not know the exact number of shares of common stock issuable until an exchange right is exercised. The earliest date we expect an exchange right could be exercised would be in the second quarter of 2017. Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Tennessee law may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and provisions of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, as applicable, even if such a transaction would benefit our shareholders. For example, our charter and bylaws: · divide our board of directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms, which may delay or prevent a change of our management or a change in control; · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by us upon approval of our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares of capital stock, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; · do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which could otherwise make it easier for a smaller minority of shareholders to elect director candidates; · do not permit shareholders to take action upon less than unanimous written consent; · provide that special meetings of the shareholders may be called only by or at the direction of the board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or the chief executive officer; · require advance notice to be given by shareholders for any shareholder proposals or director nominees; · require a super-majority vote of the shareholders to amend certain provisions of our charter; and · allow our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws but only allow shareholders to amend or repeal our bylaws upon the approval of 66 2/3 % or more of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of Tennessee law that limit, in some cases, our ability to engage in certain business combinations with significant shareholders. These restrictions and provisions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit shareholder value by impeding a sale of us or J. Alexander’s Holdings, LLC. 32 Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with FNF, we are generally prohibited, except in specified circumstances, for specified periods of up to 24 months following the Spin-off from consenting to certain acquisitions of significant amounts of our stock. As discussed above, an acquisition or further issuance of our equity securities could trigger a tax to FNF, requiring us under the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify FNF for such tax. This indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that might otherwise be considered favorable. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If too few securities or industry analysts cover our stock, the trading price for our common stock could be negatively impacted. If an analyst downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If an analyst ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock prices and trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare and pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. In addition, our current credit facility restricts our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends may also be limited by covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, investors may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless investors sell our common stock for a price greater than that which the investor paid for it. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public, exchange listed company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”). In addition, new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), and the JOBS Act, have created uncertainty for public companies and increased costs and time that boards of directors and management must devote to complying with these rules and regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules of the SEC and the NYSE regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect compliance with these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and lead to a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. For example, we have adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. We currently estimate that the additional costs we will incur as a result of being a public company will be approximately $1,100,000 annually. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. We are an emerging growth company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company as defined under the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We may take advantage of these provisions until we are no longer an emerging growth 33 company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), (2) the last day our first fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period and (4) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our prior second fiscal quarter. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to “opt out” of such extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. If we are unable to implement and maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to provide an unqualified report on our internal controls, which could adversely affect our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules adopted by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, starting with the second annual report that we file with the SEC, our management will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and lose the ability to rely on the exemptions related thereto discussed above, our independent registered public accounting firm will also need to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to our internal control over financial reporting to conclude such controls are effective. If we conclude and, once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm concludes, that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investor confidence and our stock price could decline. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of NYSE rules, and result in a breach of the covenants under our financing arrangements. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our charter and bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Tennessee law. In addition, we have entered and expect to continue to enter into agreements to indemnify our directors, executive officers and other employees as determined by our board of directors. Under the terms of such indemnification agreements, we are required to indemnify each of our directors and officers, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Tennessee, if the basis of the indemnitee’s involvement was by reason of the fact that the indemnitee is or was a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or was serving at the Company’s request in an official capacity for another entity. We must indemnify our officers and directors against all reasonable fees, expenses, charges and other costs of any type or nature whatsoever, including any and all expenses and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in, participating in (including on appeal), or preparing to defend, be a witness or participate in any completed, actual, pending or threatened action, suit, claim or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, or establishing or enforcing a right to indemnification under the indemnification agreement. The indemnification agreements also require us, if so requested, to advance within 30 days of such request all reasonable fees, expenses, charges and other costs that such director or officer incurred, provided that such person will return any such advance if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification by us. Any claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. 34 Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt securities or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both, and may result in future limitations under the tax code that could reduce the rate at which we utilize any net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our taxable income. Preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control and may have the effect of reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the ownership interest of existing stockholders in J. Alexander Holdings, Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 