Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may have similar adverse effects on us. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, are not profitable and may never become profitable. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the therapeutics segment of the companion animal market, with a limited operating history. Since our formation in February 2010, our operations have been limited to the identification of product candidates and to the research and development of our lead product candidates, which primarily target pain associated with osteoarthritis in dogs (NV‑01), pain associated with degenerative joint disease, including osteoarthritis, in cats (NV‑02) and chronic inflammatory diseases, including atopic dermatitis, in dogs (NV‑08). As a result, we have limited historical operations upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects, and we have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in companion animal therapeutics. We do not have any products approved for sale, have not generated any revenue from product sales since our inception and do not expect to generate any revenue from product sales in the near future. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. We incurred net losses of $11.9 million, $6.7 million, and $3.2 million for fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and as of June 30, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $23.7 million. This accumulated deficit has resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with research and development of our product candidates and general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates and begin commercialization activities in anticipation of regulatory approval. We will not be able to commercialize any product candidates until we successfully complete the required studies and they are approved by applicable regulatory authorities. In the United States, these authorities include the Center for Veterinary Medicine within the FDA and the Center for Veterinary Biologics within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service within the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or the USDA. In Europe, these authorities include the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA. We refer to the FDA, the USDA and the EMA collectively as the “Regulatory Authorities.” Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, it would adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares. 19 We will require substantial additional financing to achieve our goals, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed on acceptable terms, or at all, could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development, product portfolio expansion, other operations or commercialization efforts. Completing the development and obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates will require substantial funds. We believe our cash balance of $52.0 million as of June 30, 2015 will be sufficient to fund our anticipated level of operations for at least the next 12 months. Our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may seek additional funds sooner than planned through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources such as strategic collaborations. We have no current agreements or arrangements with respect to any such financings or collaborations, and any such financings or collaborations may result in dilution to our shareholders, the imposition of debt covenants and repayment obligations or other restrictions that may adversely affect our business or the value of our ordinary shares. Even if we believe we have sufficient funds on hand for our current or planned future business and operations, we may seek from time to time to raise additional capital based upon favorable market conditions or strategic considerations such as potential acquisitions. Since our inception, nearly all of our resources have been dedicated to the research and development of our lead product candidates. We believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future for the development of our lead product candidates and any future product candidates we may choose to pursue. Because the outcome of our development activities is uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development of any of our current or future product candidates and, if approved, successfully commercialize them. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our current or future product candidates, including conducting proof-of-concept, pilot and pivotal safety and efficacy studies; · the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our current or future product candidates; · the number and characteristics of the product candidates we pursue; · whether we acquire or license any other companies, assets, intellectual property or technologies in the future; · the cost of commercialization activities, if any of our current or future product candidates are approved for sale, including marketing, sales and distribution costs; · the cost of manufacturing our current and future product candidates and any approved products we successfully commercialize; · our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements; · the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel; · the costs associated with being a public company; and · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims, if any arise, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation. In addition, we may also have unanticipated costs. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate one or more of our product development, product portfolio expansion, other operations or commercialization efforts. Our success depends largely upon our ability to advance our product candidates through the various stages of development, especially through pivotal safety and efficacy studies. If we are unable to successfully advance or develop our product candidates, our business will be harmed. We currently have no products approved for commercial distribution and are focused primarily on the development of our lead product candidates. None of our product candidates have completed pivotal safety and efficacy studies and their commercial viability will depend on the success of these studies, receipt of regulatory approvals and the viability of manufacturing processes. For our first lead product candidate, NV‑01, we commenced our pivotal safety and efficacy study in October 2014, and commenced an additional pilot field safety and efficacy study in April 2015. We expect data from both these studies by the end of 2015. For our second lead product candidate, NV‑02, we completed our final proof-of-concept study, for efficacy, in mid-2015. We anticipate results from a pilot field safety and efficacy study of NV‑02 in the first quarter of 2016. For NV‑08, we expect to complete a proof-of-concept study, for efficacy, by the end of the first quarter of 2016. 20 The success of our business ultimately depends upon our ability to advance the development of our product candidates from proof-of-concept studies through pilot and pivotal safety and efficacy studies in a manner that meets extensive regulatory requirements, establish facilities capable of consistently manufacturing them in accordance with strict specifications and regulations, obtain approval for their sale by the Regulatory Authorities, and ultimately have our product candidates successfully commercialized by us or a strategic partner or licensee. The results of our ongoing research and development activities, including pivotal safety and efficacy studies, may not support or justify the continued development of our product candidates, and we may not receive approval from the Regulatory Authorities to advance the development of our product candidates. Failure to advance the development of one or more of our product candidates may have an adverse effect on our business. Our product candidates must satisfy regulatory standards of purity, safety, potency and efficacy, and standards related to manufacturing, before we can advance or complete their development or they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and sometimes lengthy proof-of-concept, pilot and pivotal safety and efficacy studies and develop acceptable and cost-effective manufacturing processes. Despite these efforts, our product candidates may not: · offer therapeutic or other medical benefits over existing drugs or other product candidates in development to treat the same animal population; · be proven to be safe and effective in pivotal safety and efficacy studies; · have the desired effects; · be free from undesirable or unexpected effects; · meet applicable regulatory standards (for example, be shown to be pure, safe, potent and effective); · be capable of being formulated and manufactured in commercially suitable quantities and at an acceptable cost; or · be successfully commercialized by us or by our collaborators. Even if we demonstrate favorable results in proof-of-concept or pilot studies for our lead product candidates, the results of pivotal safety and efficacy studies may not be sufficient to support the continued development of these product candidates. The development of companion animal therapeutics can be subject to significant delays, setbacks and failures in all stages of development, including pivotal safety and efficacy studies, even after achieving promising results in proof-of-concept studies. Accordingly, results from completed proof-of-concept or pilot studies of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in pivotal safety and efficacy studies. Furthermore, even if the data collected from proof-of-concept studies, pilot and pivotal safety and efficacy studies involving any of our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval from the Regulatory Authorities, which is required to market and sell a product. The discovery, development and manufacturing of biologics involves relatively novel technologies and an expensive and lengthy process with uncertain outcomes. Many biologics have been approved for use in humans, but apart from vaccines, relatively few recombinant proteins or antibodies have been approved for use in animals. There are unique risks and uncertainties associated with biologics, the discovery, development and manufacturing of which are subject to regulations that are complex and extensive. In addition, we develop biologics for companion animals using our proprietary PETization platform, which is a new platform that has not resulted in any commercialized products. Identification, optimization and manufacturing of biologics, including companion animal therapeutics, is a relatively new field in which unanticipated difficulties or challenges could arise. For example, there are no established practices or regulatory standards for pre-launch batch size manufacturing scale-up of a companion animal biological product candidate to commercial levels, which may cause our estimated manufacturing costs to materially increase due to unforeseen requirements from regulators or our third party manufacturer. Success in preliminary safety, proof-of-concept, pilot, field and prior target animal studies or pivotal studies, or success in studies of products similar to our product candidates but conducted in humans, does not ensure that our target animal studies or pivotal studies will be successful, and the results of development efforts by other parties may not be indicative of the results of our target animal studies, pivotal studies and other development efforts. We may be unable to identify biologics suitable for development or to achieve the potency and stability required for use in target animals. In particular, canine, feline and equine antibodies represent novel types of product candidates that may be difficult to identify through PETization or develop successfully. 21 Development of biologics, including companion animal therapeutics, is expensive and can take many years to complete, its outcome is inherently uncertain, and our development activities may not be successful. To gain approval to market an animal therapeutic for a particular species of animal, we must incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, pivotal safety and efficacy studies and provide the Regulatory Authorities with data that adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of that product in the target animal for the intended indication applied for in the new animal drug application, or NADA, product license or other regulatory filing. We rely on contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our studies and development efforts, but we have limited influence over their actual performance. Pivotal safety and efficacy studies require adequate supplies of material and sufficient target animal enrollment. Delays in target animal enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times that threaten the ability to complete the study. Pivotal safety and efficacy studies can be delayed or discontinued for a variety of reasons, including delays in or failure to: · reach agreement on acceptable terms with study sites, which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different sites; · complete pivotal safety and efficacy studies due to deviations from study protocol or the occurrence of adverse events; · address any safety concerns that arise during the course of testing; · address any conflicts with new or existing laws or regulations; · add new study sites; or · manufacture sufficient quantities of formulated biologics of adequate quality for use in studies. Even if we successfully complete pivotal safety and efficacy studies for our product candidates, we might not file the required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and may not receive regulatory approval for the product candidate. As a result, our product candidates may not successfully progress further through the drug development process or result in a commercially viable product. In addition, manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may require the use of technologies that we may need to develop ourselves or in conjunction with third-party collaborators. Small changes in the manufacturing process can have a significant impact on product quality, consistency and yield. Such manufacturing requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also usually costly to manufacture. Manufacturing biologics may be more technically challenging, time-consuming and expensive than we anticipate or subject to other regulatory uncertainties. For example, human nerve growth factor inhibitor product candidates were previously subject to classwide partial clinical holds imposed by the FDA in recent years due to the emergence of safety signals in humans, including rapidly progressive osteoarthritis, as a result of various factors including co-administration with non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs. Classwide adverse effects may be seen in companion animals with the PETized product candidates we seek to manufacture and result in clinical holds or protocol revisions or otherwise cause delays or increased costs. We may be unable to manufacture biologics at full commercial scale and at an economical cost, if at all. The results of our proof-of-concept or pilot studies for our product candidates may not be predictive of the results in any future pivotal safety and efficacy studies, and we may not be able to obtain any regulatory approvals. The results of our proof-of-concept or pilot studies, other initial development activities and any previous studies in animals or conducted in humans may not be predictive of future results of our pivotal safety and efficacy studies. Proof-of-concept studies involve relatively small numbers of animals compared to pivotal studies. For example, our proof-of-concept study completed for the efficacy of NV‑01 involved 26 dogs, while our pivotal safety and efficacy study being conducted for NV‑01 has enrolled at least 250 dogs. In March 2015, we received the results of a sample size reassessment for this study, which indicated that, in order to have a high probability of a statistically significant endpoint at the day 28 primary assessment, it would be necessary to increase the current size of the study. Following this sample size reassessment, we assessed the impact of time, cost and related logistical issues regarding the feasibility of substantially increasing the number of dogs in the current study, or initiating additional studies. This assessment included consulting with both the United States Food and Drug Administration’s Center for Veterinary Medicine and Virbac S.A., our sole and exclusive distributor of NV‑01 and any other products for which we enter into a specific distribution agreement with Virbac in the veterinary field worldwide except for the United States and Canada. We concluded that we should continue the current study to completion without a change in study size, while also commencing a new placebo-controlled multi-site pilot field safety and efficacy study to assess various doses and dosing regimens of NV‑01. This new study is expected to enroll approximately 150 dogs and to cost approximately $1.0 million, although it could result in additional costs. We expect this study to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015, but unforeseen circumstances may delay its completion. While the purpose of this new study is to obtain information that may assist the design of a future, additional pivotal study for NV‑01, if needed, it may not result in our obtaining such information. We may not receive results in any NV‑01 pivotal safety and efficacy study that are sufficient to obtain regulatory approval. 22 Failure can occur at any time during the conduct of our studies and other development activities. Even if our pivotal safety and efficacy studies and other development activities are completed as planned, they may not yield adequate results or be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any particular product candidate. Because our product candidates are developed for a particular species, our ability to leverage our experience from the development of our lead product candidates into product candidates for other species will be limited. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our existing or future product candidates under applicable regulatory requirements. The denial or delay of any such approval would delay commercialization efforts and adversely impact our potential to generate revenue, our business and our results of operations. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and our business currently depends entirely on their successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We currently have no products approved for sale, and we may never obtain regulatory approval to commercialize any of our current or future product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of animal therapeutic products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA (which regulates the manufacturing and distribution of animal drugs and pharmaceuticals), the USDA (which regulates the manufacturing and distribution of veterinary biological products to prevent, diagnose, and treat animal diseases), the EMA and other regulatory authorities, and regulations differ for each Regulatory Authority and from country to country. Any delay or failure in obtaining applicable regulatory approval from any Regulatory Authority for the intended indications of our product candidates would delay or prevent commercialization of such product candidates and would adversely impact our business and prospects. Even if an approved product reaches market, circumstances could result in the need to withdraw a product from the market. In order to market any product outside of the United States, including in the European Economic Area, or EEA (which is composed of 27 of the 28 member states of the EU, plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein), and many other foreign jurisdictions, separate regulatory approvals are required. For example, in the EEA, companion animal therapeutics can only be commercialized after obtaining a marketing authorization. Before granting a marketing authorization, the EMA or the competent national authorities of the member states of the EEA assess the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional studies and testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain approval from the Regulatory Authorities. Animal studies conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries. Approval by the FDA or the USDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more foreign regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or in the United States. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining approval in the United States. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals or to do so on a timely basis and, even if we do file them, we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our lead product candidates in any market. If any of our product candidates are approved but do not gain meaningful market acceptance, we are not likely to generate significant revenue. Even if we obtain approvals from the Regulatory Authorities, our current or future product candidates may not achieve market acceptance among veterinarians and animal owners, and may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of any of our current or future product candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including: · the safety of our lead product candidates and the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects as demonstrated in our pivotal safety and efficacy studies; · the indications for which our lead product candidates are approved; · the acceptance by veterinarians and animal owners of the product as a safe and effective treatment; · the proper training regarding, and administration of, our lead product candidates by veterinarians; · the relative convenience and ease of administration of our lead product candidates; · the potential and perceived advantages of our product candidates over alternative treatments; · the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments and willingness to pay for our lead product candidates, if approved, on the part of veterinarians and animal owners; 23 · the willingness of animal owners to pay for our lead product candidates, relative to other discretionary items, especially during economically challenging times; · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those of our collaborators and distributors; and · the willingness of veterinarians to prescribe or administer our lead product candidates to the intended target animal population. The market for therapeutic veterinary biologics such as our product candidates is very limited at present and will require education and outreach efforts to establish a therapeutic biologics market among veterinarian practices. If our lead product candidates do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our lead product candidates proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may never generate significant revenue. The commercial potential of a product candidate in development is difficult to predict. The market for our product candidates is uncertain and may be smaller than we anticipate, which could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. It is difficult to estimate the commercial potential of any of our product candidates because of the emerging nature of the companion animal therapeutics segment of the veterinary care industry. This segment continues to evolve, and it is difficult to predict the market potential for what we believe to be the unmet medical needs of companion animals. This market potential will depend on important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, changing standards of care, preferences of veterinarians, the willingness of animal owners to pay for such products, and the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the product development process or after commercial introduction. In addition, our efforts to influence veterinarian preferences by educating them about the benefits of biologics compared to currently available treatments may not be successful. If the demand for our product candidates is less than we anticipate due to one or more of these or other factors, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the willingness of animal owners to pay for our product candidates, if approved, may be less than we anticipate and may be negatively affected by overall economic conditions. Our product candidates, if approved, will face competition, and our failure to effectively compete may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration. The companion animal therapeutics segment of the veterinary care industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Key competitive factors in our segment include, among others, the ability to successfully advance the development of a product candidate through pivotal safety and efficacy studies, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, if ever achieved, average selling price of competing products and animal therapeutic products in general, the availability of raw materials, contract manufacturing and manufacturing capacity, manufacturing costs, establishing and maintaining intellectual property and patent rights and their protection, and sales and marketing capabilities. We believe our main competitors are animal health companies that are developing products for use in companion animals, such as Aratana Therapeutics, Inc., Kindred Biosciences, Inc. and Zoetis, Inc. In addition, there are a number of large biopharmaceutical companies with animal health divisions, such as Bayer AG; Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH; Eli Lilly and Company (Elanco division); Merck & Co., Inc.; and Sanofi S.A. (Merial division). If approved, we expect NV‑01 and NV‑02 will face competition from Deramaxx, marketed by Elanco; Metacam, marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim; Previcox, marketed by Merial; and Rimadyl, marketed by Zoetis, as well as from generic Meloxicam and Carprofen and other pain-treating products. We believe that Aratana and Kindred are developing, and that other companies may develop, similar products as well. In addition, private-label products may compete with our lead product candidates. If companion animal therapeutic customers increase their use of new or existing private-label products, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history and many of our competitors have substantially more resources than we do, including financial, technical and sales resources. In addition, many of our competitors have more experience than we have in the development, manufacture, regulation and worldwide commercialization of companion animal therapeutics. We are also competing with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the field of companion animal therapeutics. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which our lead product candidates are developed and ultimately approved by the Regulatory Authorities. Additionally, the timing of market introduction of some of our future products or of competitors’ products may be an important competitive factor. Accordingly, we expect the speed with which we can develop our product candidates, complete pivotal safety and efficacy studies and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities to market to be important competitive factors. 24 If we are unable to attract or retain key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all, or otherwise manage our business effectively. As of June 30 2015, we had 28 full-time employees, and we anticipate the need to increase the size of our organization, which will require us to hire, train, retain, manage and motivate current and additional employees, consultants or advisors with experience in a number of disciplines, including research and development, sales, finance, and manufacturing. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified key management, personnel and directors to develop, implement and execute our business strategy and operations, and oversee the activities of our consultants and vendors, as well as academic and corporate advisors or consultants that assist us in this regard. We are currently highly dependent upon the efforts of our management team to accomplish this, specifically including Mark Heffernan, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, David Gearing, our co-founder and Chief Scientific Officer, and Damian Lismore, our Chief Financial Officer. We do not have any “key man” insurance. Although we have successfully attracted and retained key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the companion animal therapeutics segment of the veterinary care industry is intense, because there are a limited number of individuals who are trained or experienced in the field. We may also face difficulty in expanding and enhancing our operational, financial and management systems as we grow. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to attract or retain qualified key personnel, directors, advisors or consultants, the development of our product candidates could be significantly delayed or discontinued. We rely on third-party manufacturers for supplies of our lead product candidates, and we intend to rely on third-party manufacturers for commercial quantities of any of our product candidates that may be approved. We currently have no significant internal capability to manufacture the formulated product candidates for use in our registrational studies or commercial supplies of any of our product candidates that may be approved, and we are primarily dependent upon third-party manufacturers for such supplies. We currently have a relationship with only one contract manufacturer, Fujifilm, for the potential manufacturing of our lead product candidates for clinical testing purposes and commercial supply of drug substance. Fujifilm may terminate the agreements we have entered into with them if the services cannot be completed due to technical or scientific reasons, subject to certain conditions. If Fujifilm does not perform as agreed or terminates our agreements, we may be required to replace them as our manufacturer, and we may be unable to do so on a timely basis, on similar terms or at all. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials required for the commercial production of our product candidates if we succeed in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. We may be unable to identify and reach agreement with a third-party manufacturer for our product candidates in a timely manner on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any delay in our ability to identify and contract with these third-party manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would have an adverse impact upon our current product development activities and future commercialization efforts. The facilities used by Fujifilm or other third-party manufacturers we engage to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulated biologics will be subject to inspections by the Regulatory Authorities that will be conducted after we submit our NADA to and obtain approval by the FDA, or during a potential USDA licensing process for product candidates or the EMA approval process. Among other things, these inspections may consider whether Fujifilm or other third-party manufacturers are following strict procedures associated with pharmaceutical manufacturing operations. Our third-party manufacturers are also expected by us and by other companies for which they manufacture supplies to produce such supplies in conformity to specifications and regulatory requirements and to maintain quality control and quality assurance practices and not to employ disqualified personnel. If our third-party manufacturers’ facilities or quality control and quality assurance practices do not comply with regulatory requirements or our expectations, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would adversely impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved. For example, the Brazilian regulatory authority (ANVISA) imposes certain requirements regarding segregation of human and veterinary manufacturing areas. In light of these requirements, we were unable to agree on acceptable terms for commercial supply with our prior manufacturer. Minor deviations in our manufacturing processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability or regulatory action. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: · equipment malfunctions; · shortages of materials; · changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; · labor problems; · natural disasters or power outages; 25 · terrorist activities; and · the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. These interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. In accordance with good manufacturing practice, changing manufacturers may require the re-validation of manufacturing processes and procedures and may require further studies to show comparability between the materials produced by different manufacturers. Changing our current or future third-party manufacturers may be difficult, if possible for us, and could be costly, which could result in our inability to manufacture our product candidates for an extended period of time and therefore a delay in the development or marketing of our product candidates. Further, in order to maintain our development timelines in the event of a change in our third-party manufacturer, we may incur higher costs to manufacture our product candidates. We depend on third-party suppliers for key raw materials to be used in our manufacturing processes, and the loss of these third party suppliers on their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials could harm our business. We currently rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials required for the production of our product candidates. Our dependence on these third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. Our suppliers may not provide us with quantities of these raw materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole-sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our product candidates until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are currently several other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates, including limiting supplies necessary for clinical trials and regulatory approvals, which would harm our business. Our business involves environmental, health and safety risks. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals and is subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. Under certain of those laws and regulations, we could be liable for any contamination at our properties or third party waste disposal sites. In addition to significant remediation costs, contamination can give rise to third party claims for fines, penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury and damage (including property damage). The costs of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, health or safety laws or regulations, the cost of compliance with any resulting order or find and any liability imposed in connection with any contamination for which we may be responsible could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We currently rely on third parties to conduct all of our pivotal safety and efficacy studies and certain other development efforts. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our current or future product candidates. We currently do not conduct our pivotal safety and efficacy studies, and we rely on CROs to conduct these studies. The third parties with whom we contract for the execution of our studies play a significant role in the conduct of these studies and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. However, these third parties are not our employees, and except for contractual duties and obligations, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our studies, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the development plan and protocol. Moreover, the Regulatory Authorities require us to comply with good laboratory practices and good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of our studies to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate. 26 In addition, the execution of pivotal safety and efficacy studies and the subsequent compilation and analysis of the data produced requires coordination among various parties. In order for these functions to be carried out effectively and efficiently, it is imperative that these parties communicate and coordinate with one another. Moreover, these third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. Many of our agreements with these third parties may be terminated by these third parties upon as little as 30 days’ prior written notice of a material breach by us that is not cured within 30 days. Many of these agreements may also be terminated by such third parties under certain other circumstances, including our insolvency or our failure to comply with applicable laws. In general, these agreements require such third parties to reasonably cooperate with us at our expense for an orderly winding down of services of such third parties under the agreements. If the third parties conducting our pivotal safety and efficacy studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our development protocols or good clinical practices, or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties, which could be difficult and costly, and our pivotal safety and efficacy studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the regulatory approval for and commercialization of the product candidate being tested in such studies may be delayed or require us to utilize additional resources. If we do not establish strategic collaborations, we may not be able to bring our products to market and generate revenue. Our drug research and development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Our strategy includes potentially collaborating with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our product candidates, in some or all geographies. It may be difficult to enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all, in which case we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. We currently have no direct sales organization. If we are unable to establish sales capabilities on our own, or maintain or establish new distribution relationships with third parties, we may not be able to market and sell our current or future product candidates, if approved, or generate product revenue. We currently do not have a direct sales organization. In order to commercialize any of our current or future product candidates, we must build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make or maintain arrangements with third parties to perform these services, and we may not be successful in doing so. We expect to establish a small direct sales organization in the United States and to utilize distributors, which may be expensive and time-consuming. In jurisdictions outside of the United States, we intend to utilize companies with an established commercial presence to market our lead product candidates in those jurisdictions, but we may be unable to enter into or maintain such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We entered into a master collaboration, supply and distribution agreement, and a specific distribution agreement for NV‑01, with Virbac S.A., or Virbac, an animal health pharmaceutical company, in November 2014. Pursuant to these agreements, we appointed Virbac as our sole and exclusive distributor of NV‑01 and any other products for which we enter into a specific distribution agreement with Virbac in the veterinary field worldwide except for the United States and Canada (and for NV-08, also except for Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, the People’s Republic of China, Indonesia, Thailand, India, Vietnam and Myanmar, because of pre-existing distribution rights). Virbac must provide clinical, regulatory, marketing and sales input via a joint steering committee, advise us in the drafting of regulatory submissions in the countries within the applicable territory, sell our products, meet or exceed minimum annual net sales obligations for each product, manage local complaints and transfer drug safety data, not apply for the registration of any trademark that is the same as or similar to any of our trademarks and launch the product within a specified time period after marketing authorization. Virbac may terminate these agreements if, among other things, we do not timely obtain a marketing authorization for NV‑01 in Europe, there is a material failure to comply with the target product profiles for NV‑01, there is a material deviation from a development plan for NV‑01 or the distribution of all products covered by these agreements is prevented in certain important countries specified in these agreements as a result of a potential infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights. If Virbac does not perform as agreed or terminates our agreements, we may be required to replace Virbac, and we may be unable to do so on a timely basis, on similar terms or at all. 27 We have no prior experience in the marketing, sale and distribution of companion animal therapeutics, and there are significant risks involved in building and managing a sales organization, including our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified individuals, generate sufficient sales leads, and effectively manage a sales and marketing team. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. If we are not successful in commercializing any of our current or future product candidates, either on our own or through one or more distributors, we may never generate significant revenue and may continue to incur significant losses, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of any of our approved products. Veterinarians will be our primary customers for any approved products. In recent years, there has been a trend towards the consolidation of veterinary clinics and animal hospitals. If this trend continues, these large clinics and hospitals could attempt to leverage their buying power to obtain favorable pricing from us or standardize the products they offer within their clinics or hospitals. Any resulting decrease in prices could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our revenue, expenses and results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. We expect that our operating results will vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year as a result of the initiation and success or failure of proof-of-concept, pilot or pivotal safety and efficacy studies, the timing of the formulation and manufacture of our product candidates or other development related factors. In addition, we recognized research and development incentive income of $3.5 million, $2.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively, for fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 under the AusIndustry research and development tax incentive program. This incentive, which constituted our largest source of income in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, may not continue in future years if we no longer meet the eligibility requirements for the tax incentive or if the program is modified or terminated. Accordingly, our revenue, expense and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenue, expense or results of operations for any other period. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for our lead product candidates. We currently have four granted patents (all in New Zealand) but do not have any other issued patents for our lead product candidates. However, we have filed patent applications covering various aspects of our lead product candidates. Our patent applications may never result in the issuance of patents, or patents issued to us may be dominated by the patents of third parties, including, for example, patents issued to analogous human drug, drug targets or biological compositions and their usages. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged by third parties, our patents, if issued, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around their claims. In order to commercialize our lead product candidates in one or more species, we could be required to enter into third-party licenses or, if a license is not available on terms that we consider reasonable, we could be required to cease development or commercialization of one or more of our lead product candidates. Thus, if we cannot obtain ownership of issued patents covering our lead product candidates, our business and prospects would be adversely affected. It is possible that no patents will issue to us that cover our lead product candidates, or that we will have little to no commercial protection against competing products. In such cases, we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, if available, which may provide less protection to our competitive position. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our lead product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. In the future, it may become necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of a third party to commercialize our own technology or products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from such third party. A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights, that are important or necessary to the development of our lead product candidates. A license to such intellectual property may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies. Should we obtain a license, circumstances may arise where we are not able meet our obligations under the license, which could result in termination of the license agreement and impair our ability to develop or market our lead product candidates. 28 Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any patents that issue. In September 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art, may affect patent litigation, and switch the U.S. patent system from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system. Under a “first-to-file” system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, recently developed new regulations and procedures regarding aspects of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, in particular the first-to-file provisions, only became effective in March 2013. The full effect of these changes are currently unclear as the USPTO has not yet adopted all pertinent final rules and regulations, and the courts have yet to address all of the new provisions. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any patents that issue, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce patents that we might obtain in the future. If a third party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our lead product candidates. Our success will also depend on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights of third parties. This is generally referred to as having the “freedom to operate.” We work with our patent attorneys to review third party patents and patent applications that may affect our freedom to operate, and, when we think necessary, we take action to seek to limit or challenge claims made by patents or patent applications of third parties that may adversely affect our freedom to operate. However, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, both in the United States and internationally, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. We may become involved in protracted and expensive litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, or to determine whether we have the freedom to operate with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. For example, as a result of searching patent literature in support of patent protection and otherwise evaluating the patent landscape, we are aware of third party patents or patent applications in territories where we intend to commercialize our anti-nerve growth factor products, which contain granted claims, pending claims or claims for which patent offices have issued a notice of intention to grant with coverage that could potentially be asserted with respect to NV‑01 and NV‑02. While we do not believe such assertions would be valid or enforceable or otherwise materially adversely affect commercialization of NV‑01 and NV‑02, we may be incorrect in this belief. If any third party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of any of our product candidates or any method of use of any of our product candidates, the holder of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize such product candidate unless we obtain a license under the applicable patent or limit or modify the formulation or use, or until such patent expires or is finally determined to be invalid or unenforceable. If a license to a third-party patent is needed, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any successful assertion by a third party that one of our product candidates infringes one or more issued patents could materially affect our commercialization of that product candidate if such product candidate is approved. 29 There may be patents already issued, of which we are unaware, that might be infringed by the commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. Moreover, it is also possible that patents may exist that we are aware of, but that we do not believe are relevant to our current or future product candidates, which could nevertheless be found to block our freedom to market these product candidates. Patent applications are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until approximately 18 months after the patent application is filed. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to product candidates similar to ours may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application covering our lead product candidates or other claims, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, such as an interference or derivation proceeding in the USPTO or similar proceedings in other countries, to determine the priority of invention. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal fees and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing the development and commercialization of a lead product candidate and may be subject to injunctions or awards for damages. In the future, the USPTO or a foreign patent office may grant patent rights to our lead product candidates or other claims to third parties. Subject to the issuance of these future patents, the claims of which will be unknown until issued, we may need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to have the appropriate freedom to further develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we need to obtain such licenses or sublicenses, but are unable to do so, we could encounter delays in the development of our lead product candidates, or be prevented from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our lead product candidates at all. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent and do not have the freedom to operate, we could be subject to injunctions, and compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. It is becoming common for third parties to challenge patent claims on any successfully developed product candidate or approved drug. Third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the USPTO, or post-grant opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review or interference proceedings, or other preissuance or post-grant proceedings in the United States or other jurisdictions provoked by third parties may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or future issued patents. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology and commercializing our lead product candidates, or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies. Even if we successfully defend such litigation or proceeding, we may incur substantial costs and it may distract our management and other employees. We could be found liable for monetary damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. If we or our collaborators become involved in any patent litigation or other legal proceedings, we could incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel could be significantly diverted. A negative outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our lead product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or an administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to any of our current or future product candidates are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We intend to rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection, confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our current product candidates and our development programs. Patents containing composition-of-matter claims on the active ingredients in pharmaceutical products, including companion animal therapeutics, are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection, as such claims provide protection without regard to any particular method of use or manufacture. Patents containing claims directed to methods-of-use protect the use of a product for the specified methods. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. While our pending patent families contain pending composition-of-matter and method-of-use claims, our patents, if allowed, may not contain both types of claims. The strength of patents in the field of companion animal therapeutics involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own or license may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in other foreign countries. Even if the patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope thereof, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have not filed patent applications, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and other elements of our product development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. 30 We require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and we endeavor to execute confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology. However, we may not have executed such agreements with all parties who may have helped to develop our intellectual property or had access to our proprietary information, and our agreements may be breached. Our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information may be disclosed or competitors may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce any future patents issued to us, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe any patents that may issue to us in the future, or the patents of our licensors that are licensed to us. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of any patents we may obtain, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, if we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our current lead product candidates, or one of our future products, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace grounds for a validity challenge and could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a materially misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before the USPTO, even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. There may be invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of any future patent protection on our current or future product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could harm our business. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be unsuccessful, it could have an adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Finally, we may not be able to prevent, alone or with the support of our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. We have filed trademark applications for our company name in the United States and certain other countries, and we have filed trademark applications for certain proprietary technology in the United States; however, registration is not yet complete for these filings and failure to finally secure these registrations could adversely affect our business. We have current registered trademarks for our company name (NEXVET) in Australia and New Zealand and a registered trademark for the word PETisation in Australia. We also have registered trademarks for the word PETization (and similar derivations) in Australia and New Zealand. Several trademarks for our company name and the word PETization (and similar derivations) are still going through the application process in the United States, the EU and eight other foreign jurisdictions. These applications may not result in registered trademarks. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the USPTO and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Moreover, any name we propose to use with our lead product candidates in the United States must be approved by the Regulatory Authorities, regardless of whether we have registered it, or applied to register it, as a trademark. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names, and have in the past objected (and may in the future object) to applicants’ proposed product names. If the Regulatory Authorities object to any of our proposed proprietary product names, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable substitute name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the Regulatory Authorities. 31 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates throughout the world could be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we may obtain patent protection, but where patent enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our lead product candidates in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued or licensed patents and any future patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is obtainable, or prior to us filing patent applications on inventions we may make from time to time. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on agreements that contain confidentiality and intellectual property assignment provisions with our corporate and academic partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Obtaining and maintaining, if obtained, our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. The USPTO, the European Patent Office and various other foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation The regulatory approval process is uncertain, requires us to utilize significant resources and may prevent us from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our lead product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, import, export, marketing and distribution of companion animal therapeutics are subject to extensive regulation by the Regulatory Authorities, and other regulatory authorities around the world whose regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market any of our current or future product candidates in the United States until we successfully complete our product development and testing, demonstrate that we meet the standards for regulatory approval and receive approval of a NADA from the FDA, a product license from the USDA or foreign approval, as applicable. We have not submitted an application or received regulatory approval for any of our lead product candidates in any jurisdiction. Obtaining approval of a NADA from the FDA or a product license from the USDA is an uncertain process that requires us to utilize significant resources. A Regulatory Authority may delay, limit or deny approval of any of our lead product candidates for many reasons, including if: · our proof-of-concept, pilot or pivotal safety and efficacy studies are found to have failed to comply with applicable regulatory standards, causing regulators to deem the data unreliable; · we are unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regulatory Authority that the product candidate is safe and effective for the requested indication and meets all other regulatory standards; · the Regulatory Authority disagrees with our interpretation of data from our pivotal safety and efficacy studies and other development efforts; · we are unable to demonstrate that the product candidate’s benefits outweigh any safety or other perceived risks; · the Regulatory Authority requires additional studies; 32 · the Regulatory Authority does not approve of the formulation, the labeling or the specifications of the product candidate; · the Regulatory Authority fails to approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract; and · the approval policies or regulations of the Regulatory Authority significantly change in a manner rendering the data from our studies insufficient for approval. Each Regulatory Authority employs different regulatory standards, so we may require multiple manufacturing processes and facilities for the same product candidate or any approved product. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements of the Regulatory Authorities may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, withdrawal of approved products from the market, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NADAs or product licenses or supplements to approved NADAs or product licenses. Regulatory approval of a NADA or supplemental NADA, or of a product license, is not guaranteed, and the approval process requires us to utilize significant resources, may take several years and is subject to the substantial discretion of the Regulatory Authorities. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat studies, or perform additional studies. If any of our current or future product candidates fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in our studies, or for any other reason does not gain regulatory approval, our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely harmed. Our ability to market our lead product candidates, if approved, will be limited to use for the treatment of the indications for which they are approved, and if we want to expand the indications for which we may market our lead product candidates, we will need to obtain additional regulatory approvals, which may not be granted. We expect to seek FDA approval in the United States for our lead product candidates for pain associated with osteoarthritis in dogs (NV‑01), pain associated with degenerative joint disease, including osteoarthritis, in cats (NV‑02) and chronic inflammatory diseases, including atopic dermatitis, in dogs (NV‑08). If our lead product candidates are approved, we may only market or advertise them for the treatment of indications for which they are approved, which could limit their adoption by veterinarians and companion animal owners. We may attempt to develop, promote and commercialize new treatment indications and protocols for our lead product candidates in the future, but we may not receive the approvals required to do so on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we would be required to conduct additional pivotal safety and efficacy studies to support our applications, which would utilize additional resources. Our lead product candidates are species-specific and cannot be used in species other than those for which they are being developed or are approved. If we do not obtain additional regulatory approvals, our ability to expand our business will be limited. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our current or future product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing and expensive regulatory obligations, including continued review, labeling and manufacturing requirements and other restrictions. Failure to comply with these regulatory obligations or the occurrence of unanticipated problems with our current or future product candidates could result in significant penalties. If the Regulatory Authorities approve any of our current or future product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, establishment registration, and product listing, as well as continued compliance with good manufacturing practice as well as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices for any studies that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes and quality assurance, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: · restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary product recalls; · fines, warning letters or holds on pivotal safety and efficacy studies; · refusal by the Regulatory Authorities to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic collaborators, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; · product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; and · lawsuits from animal owners. 33 The Regulatory Authorities’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our lead product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any regulatory approval that we may have obtained, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business. Post-approval monitoring of products approved by the FDA is required by law, with reports to be provided to the FDA’s Surveillance and Compliance group. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results must be produced in accordance with the law. The USDA obtains information about adverse events via voluntary spontaneous reports and other surveillance activities. In the past, the USDA has proposed more stringent post-approval monitoring and reporting procedures for license holders, and it could do so in the future. If approved, any of our current or future products may cause or contribute to adverse events that we are required to report to the Regulatory Authorities and, if we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions. If we are successful in commercializing any of our current or future product candidates, the Regulatory Authorities will require that we report certain information about adverse events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our lead product candidates. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the Regulatory Authorities could take action including criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, seizure of our lead product candidates or delay in approval or clearance of future products. The misuse or extralabel use of our lead product candidates may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. Our lead product candidates, if approved, will be limited for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. There may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, companion animal owners or others attempt extralabel use of our lead product candidates, including the use of our lead product candidates in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. Furthermore, the use of our lead product candidates for indications other than those indications for which our lead product candidates have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. If we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our lead product candidates for extralabel use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory reforms with respect to companion animal therapeutics may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any of our current or future product candidates and to produce, market, and distribute our lead product candidates after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress or the EU that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products. In addition, the Regulatory Authorities’ regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the regulators in ways that may significantly affect our business and our lead product candidates. Similar changes in laws or regulations can occur in other countries. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations in the United States or in other countries may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any of our current or future product candidates. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require: · changes to regulatory criteria for approval; · changes to manufacturing methods; · recall, replacement, or discontinuance of certain products; · additional record keeping; and · additional reporting requirements. 34 Each of these would likely entail substantial time and costs and could harm our financial results. In addition, delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for any future products would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research and development relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. As a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on companion animal therapeutics, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to obtain marketing authorization for our lead product candidates. Animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. To the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our research and development, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant reputational or financial loss. Our research activities involve the controlled use of certain hazardous chemical and biological materials from time to time. Notwithstanding the various regulations controlling the use and disposal of these materials, as well as the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may negatively impact our operations, our financial resources or our ability to recruit new staff. Future federal and state legislation may expose us to product liability claims. Under current federal and state laws, companion animals are generally considered to be personal property of their owners and, as such, owners’ recovery for product liability claims involving their companion animals may be limited to the replacement value of the companion animals. Companion animal owners and their advocates, however, have filed lawsuits from time to time seeking non-economic damages such as pain and suffering and emotional distress for harm to their companion animal based on theories applicable to personal injuries to humans. If new legislation is passed to allow recovery for such non-economic damages, or if precedents are set allowing for such recovery, we could be exposed to increased product liability claims that could result in substantial losses to us if successful. Although we maintain product liability insurance and revise our coverage from time to time, we currently have a per-claim deductible of $5,000 on our global products liability policy, which may make the insurance of limited utility in many companion animal claims where the companion animal is valued at replacement value. Furthermore, the policy is subject to per-year policy limits of $20.0 million per year for non-U.S. jurisdiction claims and $5.0 million per year for U.S. jurisdiction claims, as well as other terms and conditions. Accordingly, it is possible that our insurance will not cover future product liability claims against us. Risks Related to Taxation We are a multinational organization faced with complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. We are an Irish-registered corporation and we currently have subsidiaries in Australia, Ireland, the United States and the United Kingdom. We have historically operated primarily in Australia, and we have recently commenced operations in Ireland and the United States. Depending on our ability to develop and commercialize our lead product candidates, we may have additional operations around the world. As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in several different jurisdictions with complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in applicable tax law, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the tax authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax positions and disagree with the approaches taken or our tax returns submitted and seek to impose additional tax, interest and penalties on us. In addition, the tax authorities in those jurisdictions could claim that we have additional tax, withholding tax or other tax filing requirements or could assert that certain benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries. Furthermore, the tax authorities in one or more jurisdictions in which we do not currently believe we have a taxable presence could assert that we do have a taxable presence in that jurisdiction and on that basis assert that we have tax payment, withholding tax or other tax filing requirements in that jurisdiction. Any such claim or assertion could impact us and our results of operations. 35 Changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income in future periods. We are organized as an Irish company, in part, to improve our ability to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. Our effective tax rate, however, depends on the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In general, under current Irish tax legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in Ireland if the company is “centrally managed and controlled” in Ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if the company is incorporated in Ireland. We expect that our company will be centrally managed and controlled from Ireland and accordingly will be treated as an Irish tax resident. However, as a multinational organization, it is possible that we may not be regarded as being centrally managed and controlled in Ireland and instead be treated as a tax resident in another jurisdiction. If such a situation were to arise, it could adversely impact our tax position and our effective tax rate. Trading income of an Irish resident company is generally taxable at the Irish corporation tax rate of 12.5%. Non-trading income of an Irish resident company, such as interest income, rental income or other passive income, is taxable at a rate of 25%. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law in any jurisdiction or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in our business, we could become, or be regarded as having become, tax resident in a jurisdiction other than Ireland. Should we cease to be an Irish tax resident, we may be subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax on any gain inherent in our assets. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland, the United States, Australia and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. In addition, the changes currently proposed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or the OECD, and their action plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting could adversely impact our tax position and our business operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: · the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; · the resolution of issues arising from any tax audits with various tax authorities; · changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; · increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including transaction costs and impairments of goodwill in connection with any acquisitions; · changes in available tax credits, including the research and development tax credit in Australia; · changes in the taxation of share-based compensation; · changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and · challenges to the transfer pricing policies related to our structure. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax rates, tax laws, tax practice, tax treaties or tax regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws, treaties or regulations by the tax authorities in Ireland, the United States, Australia and other jurisdictions as well as being affected by certain changes currently proposed by the OECD. Such changes may be become more likely as a result of recent economic trends in the jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly if such trends continue. For example, a change in the Irish government’s stated policy of not increasing business taxation could cause a material and adverse change in our worldwide effective tax rate and we may have to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to mitigate the effect of such changes. In addition, any amendments to the current double taxation treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions, including Australia and the United States, could subject us to increased taxation or irrecoverable withholding tax. Failure to manage the risks associated with such changes, or misinterpretation of the laws relating to taxation, could result in costly audits, interest, penalties and reputational damage, which could adversely affect our business, results of our operations and our financial condition. In the normal course of business, we are currently open to inspection by the tax authorities in Ireland, Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom. We are not currently the subject of any ongoing tax audits. 36 Our ability to use existing tax loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience a change in ownership, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. Our ability to use our net operating losses is subject to limitations and reassessment due to ownership changes that have occurred or that may occur in the future under the laws of the jurisdictions in which we have net operating losses, which currently include Australia. In addition, use of net operating losses is restricted to income in those jurisdictions. For example, Nexvet Australia’s tax loss carry forwards comprised $7.2 million and $4.0 million of our tax loss carry forwards as of June 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Given the change of ownership that occurred in September 2014 to Nexvet Australia, the Australian tax authorities could argue that there has been a change in the underlying business in Australia, which may result in a substantial portion of these tax losses never being recoverable. In June 2015, a change was passed in the relevant small business tax rate applicable to Nexvet Australia from 30% to 28.5%, which will apply from July 1, 2015. Carry forward tax losses have been stated at the applicable 28.5% rate as of June 30, 2015. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our tax loss carry forwards, a significant portion of our future taxable income could be taxable. Additionally, tax law limitations may result in our net operating losses expiring before we have the ability to use them. In addition, financing and acquisition transactions that we may enter into in the future could significantly limit or eliminate our ability to realize any value from our net operating losses. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our overall tax liability. Our parent company is based in Ireland and we currently have subsidiaries in Australia, Ireland, the United States and the United Kingdom. If we succeed in growing our business, we expect to conduct increased operations through our subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our parent company and subsidiaries. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms’ length and that appropriate documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms’ length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that we may be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject U.S. Holders to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We believe that we may be a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes in our current taxable year and we may be a PFIC in other taxable years. A foreign corporation like us generally will be a PFIC if either at least (i) 75% of its gross income is “passive income” or (ii) 50% of the gross value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. We refer to the passive income test as the “PFIC Income Test” and the asset test as the “PFIC Asset Test.” The proceeds from our initial public offering are a passive asset under these rules and may cause us to meet the PFIC Asset Test for our taxable year that includes our initial public offering (and in later years if we are not deploying the cash at a rate that would allow us to avoid meeting the PFIC Asset Test in such later years). If we are a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold shares and you are a “U.S. Holder,” we always will be a PFIC with respect to your share ownership (subject to the QEF election discussed immediately below) unless you make an election to “purge” PFIC status as of the beginning of the first taxable year that we are not a PFIC (a year in which do not meet the PFIC Income Test or the PFIC Asset Test) or the first taxable year that you make a QEF election, if such election is made after the first year in which you held our ordinary shares and in which we are a PFIC, all as discussed further below. If we are a PFIC and you are a U.S. Holder and do not make a Qualified Electing Fund election, or QEF election, with respect to us or a mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our ordinary shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our ordinary shares and certain other events. The effect of these adverse tax consequences could be materially adverse to you. 37 If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely QEF election for us, you will not be subject to those adverse tax consequences, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our ordinary shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. If we are a PFIC with respect to any tax year, we will provide information to all electing shareholders needed to comply with the QEF election in time for each electing shareholder to make and maintain a timely QEF election, taking into account available extensions. If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will recognize as ordinary income or loss in each year that we are a PFIC an amount equal to the difference between your basis in our ordinary shares and the fair market value of the ordinary shares, thus also possibly giving rise to phantom income and a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Ordinary loss generally is recognized only to the extent of net mark-to-market gains previously included in income. If one or more of our subsidiaries is a PFIC, U.S. Holders will also need to make the QEF election with respect to each such subsidiary in order to avoid the adverse tax consequences described above. We intend to provide on a timely basis all information necessary for U.S. Holders to make the QEF election with respect to any of our subsidiaries that may be classified as a PFIC in any tax year. U.S. Holders should also be aware that the mark-to-market election generally will not be available with respect to any of our subsidiaries that is a PFIC, rendering such election less beneficial to U.S. Holders than the QEF election. We intend to determine on an annual basis whether we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. As noted above, if we are a PFIC in any taxable year in which you own shares, you do not make a timely QEF election and you are a U.S. Holder, we will remain a PFIC with respect to your share ownership unless you make a “purging election.” The resulting liability from such an election could be substantial. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service determines that we are not a PFIC, and you previously paid taxes pursuant to a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, you may pay more taxes than you legally owe. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service makes a determination that we are not a PFIC and you previously paid taxes pursuant to a QEF election or mark-to-market election, then you may have paid more taxes than you legally owed due to such election. If you do not, or are not able to, file a refund claim before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, you will not be able to claim a refund for those taxes. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may remain volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and could continue fluctuating widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section of this Report and others, such as: · results from, and any delays in, our current and future proof-of-concept and pivotal safety and efficacy studies; · announcements of regulatory approval or disapproval of any of our current or future product candidates; · delays in the commercialization of our current or future product candidates; · manufacturing and supply issues related to our development programs and commercialization of our current or future product candidates; · quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; · changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of new product candidates, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments; · announcements relating to future development or license agreements including termination of such agreements; · adverse developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or those of our principal collaborators; · commencement of litigation involving us or our competitors; · changes in our board of directors or management; · new legislation in the United States relating to the prescription, sale, distribution or pricing of companion animal therapeutics; · product liability claims, other litigation or public concern about the safety of our lead product candidates or future products; · market conditions in the companion animal market in general, or in the companion animal therapeutics segment in particular, including performance of our competitors; and · general economic conditions in the United States and abroad. 38 In addition, the stock market in general, or the market for equity securities in our industry or industries related to our industry, may experience extreme volatility unrelated to our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our ordinary shares. Any sudden decline in the market price of our ordinary shares could trigger securities class-action lawsuits against us. If any of our shareholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management would be diverted from our business and operations. We also could be subject to damages claims if we are found to be at fault in connection with a decline in our share price. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue adverse or misleading opinions regarding us or our ordinary shares, our share price and trading volume could decline. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts, and if coverage is not maintained or initiated from time to time, the market price for our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our share price also may decline if any analyst who covers us issues an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our share performance, or if our pivotal safety and efficacy studies and operating results fail to meet analysts’ expectations. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline and possibly adversely affect our ability to engage in future financings. Our principal shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to shareholder approval. Based on shares outstanding as of June 30, 2015, our executive officers, directors, holders of five percent or more of our ordinary shares and their respective affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 70.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result of their share ownership, these shareholders may have the ability to influence our management and policies and will be able to significantly affect the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval such as elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents or approvals of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our ordinary shares that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our shareholders. We will have broad discretion regarding use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, and we may use them in ways that do not enhance our operating results or the market price of our ordinary shares. Our management has broad discretion regarding the use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, and we could spend the net proceeds in ways our shareholders may not agree with or that do not yield a favorable return, if at all. We intend to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering to complete the development and manufacturing scale-up of each of our lead product candidates, to establish our sales force infrastructure in the United States for any approved products and for anticipated promotional and launch costs. We also intend to fund research to develop our pipeline of other product candidates. We intend to use the remainder of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, together with our other cash on hand, for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may also use a portion of the net proceeds to acquire or in-license additional product candidates or complementary assets or businesses; however, we currently have no agreements, commitments or understandings to complete any such transaction. Further, our actual use of these proceeds may differ substantially from our current intentions. If we do not invest or apply the proceeds from our initial public offering or our other available cash in ways that improve our operating results or our prospects, our share price could decline. If we raise additional capital in the future, your level of ownership in us could be diluted or require us to relinquish rights. Any issuance of securities we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our ordinary shares in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. Further, if we obtain funds through a debt financing or through the issuance of debt or preference securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as an ordinary shareholder, which could impair the value of our ordinary shares. Any debt financing we enter into may include covenants that limit our flexibility in conducting our business. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others, which might require us to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or product candidates that we would have otherwise retained. Your rights as a shareholder will be governed by Irish law and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. We are a public limited company under the laws of Ireland. Therefore, the rights of holders of ordinary shares are governed by Irish law and by our memorandum and articles of association, or our Articles. These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. In certain cases, facts that, under U.S. law, would entitle a shareholder in a U.S. corporation to claim damages may not give rise to a cause of action under Irish law entitling a shareholder in an Irish company to claim damages. For example, the rights of shareholders to bring proceedings against us or against our directors or officers in relation to public statements are more limited under Irish law than under the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. 39 You may have difficulties enforcing, in actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts under the U.S. securities laws. In particular, if you sought to bring proceedings in Ireland based on U.S. securities laws, the Irish court might consider: · that it did not have jurisdiction; · that it was not the appropriate forum for such proceedings; · that, applying Irish conflict of laws rules, U.S. law (including U.S. securities laws) did not apply to the relationship between you and us or our directors and officers; or · that the U.S. securities laws were of a penal nature or violated Irish public policy and should not be enforced by the Irish court. You should also be aware that Irish law does not allow for any form of legal proceedings directly equivalent to the class action available in the United States. You may have difficulty in effecting service of process within the United States or enforcing judgments obtained in the United States. We and several members of our senior management and board of directors are residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to: · effect service of process within the United States upon us, certain members of our senior management and board of directors and certain experts we retain; or · obtain discovery of relevant documents or the testimony of witnesses. There is no system of reciprocal enforcement in Ireland of judgments obtained in the U.S. courts. Accordingly, a U.S. judgment against any of those persons or us may only be enforced in Ireland by the commencement of a new action before the Irish court based on the judgment of the U.S. court. Summary judgment against any of those persons or us, as the case may be, may be granted by the Irish court without requiring the issues in the U.S. litigation to be reopened on the basis that those matters have already been decided by the U.S. court provided that the Irish court is satisfied that: · the U.S. judgment is for a definite sum of money; · the U.S. judgment is not directly or indirectly for the payment of taxes or other charges of a like nature or a fine or other penalty (for example, punitive or exemplary damages); · the U.S. judgment is final and conclusive; · the Irish proceedings were commenced within the relevant limitation period; · the U.S. judgment is provided by a court of competent jurisdiction (as determined by Irish law); · the U.S. judgment remains valid and enforceable in the court in which it was obtained; and · the U.S. judgment is not obtained by fraud, did not violate Irish public policy, is not in breach of natural justice and is not irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. As a newly public company, we incur significant additional costs, and our management devotes substantial time and attention to our public reporting obligations. As a publicly-traded company, we incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and The NASDAQ Stock Market have created uncertainty for public companies and increased our costs and the time that our board of directors and management must devote to complying with these rules and regulations. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs substantially and lead to diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities. 40 We are an “emerging growth company,” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies” may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and, therefore, we may take advantage of reduced disclosure and regulatory requirements that are otherwise generally applicable to public companies, including presenting only two years of audited financial statements and related financial disclosure, not being required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments. We may take advantage of these reduced disclosure and regulatory requirements until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We may remain an “emerging growth company” until as late as June 30, 2020 (the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering), although we may cease to be an “emerging growth company” earlier under certain circumstances, including if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any December 31, in which case we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following June 30, or if our gross revenue exceeds $1 billion in any fiscal year. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as public companies that are not emerging growth companies. The exact implications of the JOBS Act are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, and we may not be able to take advantage of all of the benefits of the JOBS Act. In addition, investors may find our ordinary shares less attractive if we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may decline or become more volatile. Our prior audit firm previously advised us that we lacked proper internal controls to develop reliable financial statements. If we are not able to develop and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting we may be unable to accurately and timely report our financial results and our business could be harmed. Our prior auditor previously audited our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Australia, or Australian GAAS, for fiscal years 2012 and 2013, which were prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards generally accepted in Australia, or Australian IFRS. Our prior auditor did not previously conduct any audits for any period in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States or the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, or international financial reporting standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Our prior auditor advised us that, through October 2013, the date of its report, there was a lack of (i) proper segregation of duties and (ii) competent and qualified financial reporting personnel for the development of policies and procedures relating to the financial reporting function and the preparation of reliable financial statements prepared in accordance with Australian IFRS. Although we were not subject to Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requirements at the time, we believe that the conditions identified by our prior auditor constituted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during that period. A material weakness is defined under the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements may not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. As of June 30, 2013, we only had six employees and primarily relied upon a third-party consultant to perform bookkeeping services and compile our financial statements. Subsequent to October 2013, we retained Damian Lismore, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as two other personnel within our financial reporting and accounting group, who collectively have experience in U.S. GAAP and the preparation of public company financial statements. Following Mr. Lismore’s retention we have implemented procedures to segregate duties within our financial reporting and accounting group; however, as a small company we are unable to completely segregate duties and must rely upon other controls. In addition, we have adopted accounting policies and procedures relating to the financial reporting function and we plan to further develop and formalize our financial reporting and accounting policies and procedures as we grow. As a result of these actions, we believe that we have remediated the above material weaknesses. 41 Although no material weaknesses were identified in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for fiscal year 2015, neither we nor our current independent registered public accounting firm conducted an evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2015. We will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for fiscal year 2016. In addition, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we are no longer an “emerging growth company” or if our market capitalization remains below $75 million. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We will continue the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, and we may not be able to complete our evaluation or testing in a timely fashion. As we prepare for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by implementing the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance. In addition, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation in connection with the attestation provided by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment our business and share price could be harmed and our ability to report our financial results accurately and in a timely manner could be impaired. We have never paid cash dividends, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends and our ability to pay dividends, or repurchase or redeem our ordinary shares, is limited by law. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will at the sole discretion of our board of directors after considering our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, general business conditions and other factors our board of directors deems relevant, and subject to compliance with applicable laws (including the Irish Companies Act, which requires Irish companies to have distributable reserves available for distribution equal to or greater than the amount of the proposed dividend). Accordingly, the only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company is expected to be if the market price of our ordinary shares appreciates and you sell your ordinary shares at a profit. The price of our ordinary shares prevailing in the market may not exceed the price that you pay. A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. The rate of stamp duty (when applicable) on the transfer of shares in an Irish-incorporated company is 1% of the price paid, or the market value of the shares acquired, whichever is greater. Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. We expect that most of our ordinary shares will be traded through Depositary Trust Company, or DTC, or through brokers who hold such shares on behalf of customers through DTC. As such, the transfer of ordinary shares should be exempt from Irish stamp duty based on established practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners. We have received confirmation from the Irish Revenue Commissioners that a transfer of our ordinary shares held through DTC and transferred by means of a book-entry interest would be exempt from Irish stamp duty. We have also received confirmation from the Irish Revenue Commissioners that certain transfers of our ordinary shares into (or out of) DTC would be exempt from Irish stamp duty. However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly of record, rather than beneficially through DTC (or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of your ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty. The potential for stamp duty to arise could adversely affect the price and liquidity of our ordinary shares. In addition, the terms of our eligibility agreement with DTC require us to provide certain indemnities relating to Irish stamp duty to third parties. If liability were to arise as a result of the indemnities provided under the terms of the eligibility agreement, we may face unexpected costs that could adversely impact our results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles and under Irish law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current directors and management team, and limit the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Articles contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our ordinary shares, and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares. These provisions will include: · dividing our board of directors into two classes, with each class serving a staggered two-year term; · permitting our board of directors to issue additional preference shares, with such rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate; and · establishing an advance notice procedure for shareholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors. 42 These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management team by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States with respect to defending unwanted takeover proposals and may give our board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors. We are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules. Under the Irish Takeover Rules, our board of directors is not permitted to take any action that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once our board of directors has received an approach that may lead to an offer or has reason to believe that such an offer is or may be imminent, subject to certain exceptions. Potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issue of shares, options, restricted share units or convertible securities, (ii) material acquisitions or disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any earlier time during which our board of directors has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent. These provisions may give our board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors than would be the case for a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 