Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in evaluating an investment in our common units. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Because a substantial majority of our revenue currently is, and over the long term is expected to be, derived from Rice Energy, any development that materially and adversely affects Rice Energy’s operations, financial condition or market reputation could have a material and adverse impact on us. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Rice Energy accounted for approximately 79% of our gathering revenues and 87% of our water services revenues. We are substantially dependent on Rice Energy as our most significant current customer, and we expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from Rice Energy for the foreseeable future. As a result, any event, whether in our dedicated areas or otherwise, that adversely affects Rice Energy’s production, drilling and completion schedule, financial condition, leverage, market reputation, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our revenues and cash available for distribution. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Rice Energy, including, among others: •a reduction in or slowing of its anticipated drilling and production schedule, which would directly and adversely impact demand for our gathering and compression and water services; •the volatility of natural gas prices, which could have a negative effect on the value of its properties, its drilling programs or its ability to finance its operations; •changes in regulations or statutes applicable to us or Rice Energy, which could have a negative effect on the value of our facilities or services or Rice Energy’s properties, its drilling programs or its ability to finance its operations; •the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund its exploration and development activities; •its ability to replace reserves; •its drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities; and•its access to downstream transportation capacity and any constraints or interruptions thereof. Further, we are subject to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by Rice Energy, including with respect to our gathering and compression agreement and water services agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which Rice Energy’s business would be impacted if conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on Rice Energy’s ability to execute its drilling and development program or perform under our gathering and compression agreement or our amended and restated water services agreements with Rice Energy (“Water Services Agreements”). Any material non-payment or non-performance by Rice Energy could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Also, due to our relationship with Rice Energy, our ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairment to Rice Energy’s financial condition or adverse changes in its credit ratings. Any material limitation on our ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes at Rice Energy could limit our ability to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes at Rice Energy could negatively impact our unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, or could negatively affect our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, and could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Unless we are successful in attracting significant unaffiliated third-party customers, our ability to maintain or increase the capacity subscribed and the volumes gathered on our gathering system will be dependent on receiving consistent or increasing commitments from Rice Energy. While Rice Energy has dedicated acreage to us, and entered into long-term contracts for the services of our systems, it may determine in the future that drilling in areas outside of our dedicated areas is strategically more attractive and it is under no contractual obligation to maintain its production dedicated to us. A reduction in the volumes gathered on our systems by Rice Energy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results or operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. 17We may not generate sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. We may not generate sufficient cash flow each quarter to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the volume of natural gas we gather and compress; •the volume of fresh water we distribute and produced water we handle;•the rates we charge for our gathering and compression services and water services; •the market price of natural gas and its effect on Rice Energy’s and third parties’ drilling schedule as well as produced volumes; •Rice Energy’s and our third-party customers’ ability to fund their drilling programs; •adverse weather conditions; •the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs; •regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the rates we can charge for our services, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and •prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: •the level, timing and amounts of capital expenditures we make, which amounts could be impacted by costs of labor and materials; •our debt service requirements and other liabilities; •our ability to make borrowings under our revolving credit facility to pay distributions; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •restrictions on distributions contained in any of our debt agreements; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; •fees and expenses of our general partner and its affiliates (including Rice Energy) we are required to reimburse; •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and •other business risks affecting our cash levels. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends, in part, on Rice Energy’s ability to replace declining production and our ability to secure new sources of production from Rice Energy or third parties. Additionally, our water services are directly associated with Rice Energy’s well completion activities and water needs, which are partially driven by horizontal lateral lengths and the number of completion stages per well. Any decrease in Rice Energy’s production could adversely affect our business and operating results. The natural gas volumes that support our gathering business depend on the level of production from natural gas wells connected to our systems, which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. If and to the extent Rice Energy is able to execute its drilling and completion program and achieve its anticipated production targets, the volumes of natural gas we gather should increase. To the extent Rice Energy completes or reduces its activity or otherwise ceases to drill and complete wells, revenues for our gathering and compression and water services will be directly and adversely affected. Our ability to maintain water services revenues is substantially dependent on continued completion activity by Rice Energy or third parties over time, as well as the volumes of produced water. In addition, natural gas volumes from completed wells will naturally decline over time, and our cash flows associated with these wells will correspondingly decline. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas from Rice Energy or third 18parties. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas include (i) the success of Rice Energy’s drilling activity in our areas of operation, (ii) Rice Energy’s acquisition of additional acreage and (iii) our ability to obtain acreage dedications from third parties. Our fresh water distribution services, which make up a substantial portion of our water services revenues, will be in greatest demand in connection with completion activities. To the extent that Rice Energy or other fresh water distribution customers complete wells with shorter lateral lengths, the demand for our fresh water distribution services would be reduced.We have no control over Rice Energy’s or other producers’ level of development and completion activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, our fresh water distribution business is dependent upon active development in our areas of operation. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our fresh water distribution systems, we must service new wells. We have no control over Rice Energy or other producers or their development plan decisions, which are affected by, among other things: •the availability and cost of capital; •prevailing and projected natural gas, NGL and oil prices; •the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities, and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices; •demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil; •levels of reserves; •geologic considerations; •environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing, the potential removal of certain federal income tax deductions with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development or additional state taxes on natural gas extraction; and •the costs of producing the natural gas and the availability and costs of drilling rigs and other equipment. Rice Energy could elect to reduce its drilling and completion activity if commodity prices decrease. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of reserves. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions and seasonal trends, the levels of domestic production and consumer demand, the availability of imported liquefied natural gas, or LNG, the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity, the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the effect of energy conservation measures, the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation, and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. Declines in commodity prices could have a negative impact on Rice Energy’s development and production activity, and if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in development or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our services. In addition, substantially all of Rice Energy’s natural gas production is sold to purchasers under contracts with market-based prices. The actual prices realized from the sale of natural gas differ from the quoted NYMEX Henry Hub price as a result of location differentials. Location differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub prices, also known as basis differentials, result from variances in regional natural gas prices compared to NYMEX Henry Hub prices as a result of regional supply and demand factors. Furthermore, the costs associated with securing long-term firm transportation capacity has risen significantly on newer projects. There can be no assurance that the net impact of entering into such arrangements, after giving effect to their costs, will result in more favorable sales prices for Rice Energy’s production in the future than local pricing. Due to these and other factors, even if reserves are known to exist in areas serviced by our assets, producers have chosen, and may choose in the future, not to develop those reserves. If reductions in development activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, our systems, or our water services, or if reductions in lateral lengths result in a decrease in demand for our water services on a per well basis, those reductions could reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 19Our assets are concentrated in three counties within the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. We rely on revenues generated from our gathering and compression systems, which are located in Washington and Greene counties, Pennsylvania, and our water services assets, which are located in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania and Belmont County, Ohio. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, trucking shortages, availability of produced water disposal sites, market limitations, governmental regulations impacting the use of water in well completion activities, cold weather conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of natural gas and NGLs. Insufficient takeaway capacity in the Appalachian Basin could cause decreased producer activity in our dedicated areas. The Appalachian Basin has recently experienced periods in which natural gas production has surpassed local takeaway capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received by producers selling into the Appalachia markets. Although additional Appalachian Basin takeaway capacity has been added in recent years and additional capacity is being constructed, the existing and expected capacity may not be sufficient to keep pace with the increased production caused by drilling in the area. If our customers are unable to secure long-term firm takeaway capacity on major pipelines that connect to our gathering systems to accommodate their growing production and to manage their basis differentials, it could impact their development plan and cause a decrease in throughput on our gathering systems. Any of the aforementioned throughput decreases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a number of areas within the Marcellus Shale have historically been subject to longwall coal mining operations. For example, third parties may conduct longwall coal mining operations near or under Rice Energy’s, our other customers’ or our properties, which could cause subsidence or other damage to Rice Energy’s, our other customers’ or our properties, adversely impact our customers’ drilling or adversely impact our gathering and compression activities. In such event, our or our customers’ operations may be impaired or interrupted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, gathering and compression and water services require special equipment and laborers skilled in multiple disciplines, such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. The increased levels of production in the Appalachian Basin may result in a shortage of equipment and skilled labor. If we experience such shortages, our labor and equipment costs and overall productivity could be materially and adversely affected. If our equipment or labor prices increase, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to attract additional third-party gathering and compression volumes or opportunities to provide water services, which could limit our ability to grow and increase our dependence on Rice Energy. Part of our long-term growth strategy includes identifying additional opportunities to offer services to third parties. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Rice Energy accounted for approximately 79% of our gathering revenues and 87% of our water services revenues. Our ability to increase throughput on our gathering and compression systems and water services systems and any related revenue from third parties is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when requested by third parties. To the extent that we lack available capacity on our systems for third-party volumes, we may not be able to compete effectively with third-party systems for additional volumes in our dedicated areas. In addition, some of our competitors for third-party volumes have greater financial resources and access to larger supplies of natural gas than those available to us, which could allow those competitors to price their services more aggressively than we do. We have historically provided gathering services to third parties on a limited basis, and we may not be able to attract material third-party service opportunities. Our efforts to attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by (i) our relationship with Rice Energy and the fact that a substantial portion of the capacity of our gathering and compression systems and water services systems will be necessary to service Rice Energy’s production and development and completion schedule, (ii) our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based contracts and (iii) the existence of current and future dedications to other gatherers by potential third-party customers. As a result, we may not have the capacity to provide services to third parties and/or potential third-party customers may prefer to obtain services pursuant to other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure. Increased competition from other companies that provide gathering services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Our systems compete primarily with other natural gas gathering 20systems. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have access to greater supplies of natural gas than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering systems instead of using ours. Moreover, Rice Energy and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us outside of our dedicated areas. Further, natural gas as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering services. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers and/or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our systems, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. We will be required to make capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to increase our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and, as a result, we will be unable to raise the level of our future cash distributions. To fund our expansion capital expenditures and investment capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations and/or incur borrowings. Such uses of cash from our operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Alternatively, we may sell additional common units or other securities to fund our capital expenditures. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our or Rice Energy’s financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the prevailing distribution rate. None of our general partner, Rice Energy or any of their respective affiliates is committed to providing any direct or indirect support to fund our growth. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record a net loss for financial accounting purposes, and conversely, we might fail to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. Our construction or purchase of new gathering and compression or other assets may not result in revenue increases and may be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction or purchase of new assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. We may construct facilities to capture anticipated future production growth in an area in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new gathering and compression or other assets may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines or facilities. We may be unable to timely obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering pipelines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to expand or renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 21Our exposure to commodity price risk may change over time. We currently generate all of our gathering and compression revenues pursuant to fee-based contracts under which we are paid based on the volumes that we gather and compress, rather than the underlying value of the commodity. Consequently, our existing operations and cash flows have no direct exposure to commodity price risk. Although we intend to enter into similar fee-based contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to negotiate such contractual terms may not be successful. In addition, we may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in a manner that increases our exposure to commodity price risk. Future exposure to the volatility of natural gas, NGL and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. However, we have some indirect exposure to commodity prices and basis differentials in that persistently low realized sales prices by our customers may cause them to delay drilling or shut in production, which would reduce the volumes of natural gas available for gathering and compression on our systems. Please read “Item 7A.—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Our revolving credit facility contains various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •redeem or repurchase units or make distributions under certain circumstances; •make certain investments and acquisitions; •incur certain liens or permit them to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; •merge or consolidate with another company; and •transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our revolving credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is no assurance that that we will meet any such ratios and tests. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity.” Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including required well pad connections and well connections pursuant to our gas gathering and compression agreement as well as acquisitions) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which 22are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions to our unitholders, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to capture growth opportunities or for other purposes, or to make cash distributions to our unitholders at our intended levels. If interest rates rise, the interest rates on our revolving credit facility, future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to expand or for other purposes, or to make cash distributions at our intended levels.The credit and risk profile of Rice Energy could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of Rice Energy may be a factor considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because Rice Energy controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Any adverse change in the financial condition of Rice Energy, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from us to service its indebtedness, or a downgrade of Rice Energy’s credit rating, may adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of Rice Energy, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of Rice Energy and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Rice Energy or third parties, our future growth will be limited, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash available for distribution on a per unit basis. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants, including Rice Energy. Though our Omnibus Agreement provides us with a right of first offer with respect to certain of Rice Energy’s gas gathering assets in Belmont County, Ohio that will require Rice Energy to provide us with an opportunity to offer to purchase these assets that it may sell, the consummation and timing of any future transactions pursuant to the exercise of our right of first offer with respect to any particular business opportunity will depend upon, among other things, our ability to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such opportunities and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Additionally, Rice Energy is under no obligation to accept any offer made by us with respect to such opportunities. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to exercise these rights when they become available, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. As such, there is no guarantee that we will be able to make any such offer or consummate any acquisition of midstream assets from Rice Energy. Furthermore, many factors could impair our access to future midstream assets and the willingness of Rice Energy to offer us acquisition opportunities, including a change in control of Rice Energy or a transfer of the incentive distribution rights held by Rice Energy to a third party. A material decrease in divestitures of midstream energy assets from Rice Energy or otherwise would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Rice Energy or third parties, whether because, among other reasons, (i) Rice Energy elects not to sell or contribute additional assets to us or to offer acquisition opportunities to us, (ii) we are unable to identify attractive third-party acquisition opportunities, (iii) we are unable to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with Rice Energy or third parties, (iv) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (v) we are outbid by competitors or (vi) we are unable to obtain necessary governmental or third-party consents, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash available for distribution on a per unit basis. 23Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies and potential growth;•an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;•an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire;•the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; •limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; •mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; •the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; and •unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or business lines. If any acquisition eventually proves not to be accretive to our cash available for distribution per unit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. The demand for the services provided by our water distribution business could decline as a result of several factors.Our recently acquired water services business includes fresh water distribution for use in our customers’ natural gas, NGL and oil exploration and production activities. Water is an essential component of natural gas, NGL and oil production during the drilling, and in particular, the hydraulic fracturing process. As a result, the demand for our fresh water distribution and produced water handling services is tied to the level of drilling and completion activity of our customers, including Rice Energy, which is currently and will continue to be our primary customer for such services. More specifically, the demand for our water distribution and produced water handling services could be adversely affected by any reduction in or slowing of Rice Energy’s or other customers’ well completions, any reduction in produced water attributable to completion activity, or to the extent that Rice Energy or other customers complete wells with shorter lateral lengths, which would lessen the volume of fresh water required for completion activity.Additionally, we depend on Rice Energy to source a portion of the fresh water we distribute. The availability of our and Rice Energy’s water supply may be limited due to reasons including, but not limited to, prolonged drought. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water or changes in wastewater disposal requirements may incentivize water recycling efforts by oil and natural gas producers, which could decrease the demand for our fresh water distribution services.We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our natural gas gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations and the permits and other approvals issued thereunder. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase or operational delays may occur if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations apply to our operations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. In addition, new or additional regulations or permitting requirements, new interpretations of existing requirements or changes in our operations could also trigger the need for Environmental Assessments or more detailed Environmental Impact Statements under the National Environmental Policy Act and analogous state laws, as well as litigation over the adequacy of those reviews, which could result in increased costs or delays of, or denial of rights to conduct, our development programs. Such potential regulations or litigation could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay or halt our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the discharges of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties. Please read “Item 1. Business—24Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters” for a further description of laws and regulations that affect us. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of such assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and our operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering operations are exempt from regulation by the FERC, under the NGA. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to determine whether a pipeline is a gathering pipeline not subject to FERC jurisdiction. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts, or Congress. If the FERC were to determine that all or some of our gathering facilities and/or services provided by us are not exempt from FERC regulation, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC, which could in turn decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, gas quality, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. Should we fail to comply with any applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take and common purchaser requirements, as well as complaint-based rate regulation. While we have not obtained a specific determination from the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission, we believe our natural gas gathering facilities are not subject to rate regulation or open access requirements by the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission. However, the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission requires us to register as pipeline operators, pay assessment and registration fees, undergo inspections and report annually on the miles of pipeline we operate. Other state regulations may not directly apply to our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, compression and sale. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels. Our gathering operations could be adversely affected in the future should we become subject to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. These operations may also be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. For more information regarding federal and state regulation of our operations, please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations.” Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas, NGL and oil production by our customers, which could reduce the throughput on our gathering and compression systems, the number of wells for which we provide water services, which could and adversely impact our revenues. All of Rice Energy’s natural gas production is being developed from shale formations. These reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the liquids and natural gas from the rock so it can flow through casing to the surface. Hydraulic fracturing is a well stimulation process that utilizes large volumes of water and sand (or other proppant) combined with fracturing chemical additives that are pumped at high pressure to crack open previously impenetrable rock to release hydrocarbons. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies, but the EPA has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA, over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. EPA has moved forward with various regulatory actions, including regulations under the CAA governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking in March 2014 under the Toxic Substances Control Act that would require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing; and proposed rules in April 2015 to prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. In addition, the Bureau of Land Management, or the BLM, finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic 25fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. The U.S. District Court of Wyoming has temporarily stayed implementation of this rule. A final decision has not yet been issued. Along with several other states, Pennsylvania (where we currently operate) has adopted laws and regulations that impose more stringent disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, and local governments may also adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, or prohibiting such activities. In addition, various studies are underway by the EPA and other federal agencies concerning the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. At the same time, certain environmental groups have advocated for additional laws to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed by members of Congress from time to time to provide for such regulation. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would require. Additional levels of regulation and permits potentially required by new laws and regulations at the federal, state or local level could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions for Rice Energy or other potential customers that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through our gathering systems or reduce the number of wells drilled and completed that require fresh water for hydraulic fracturing systems, which in turn could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our operations, as well as our customers’ operations, are subject to significant liability under, or costs and expenditures to comply with, environmental and worker health and safety regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change. As an owner, lessee or operator of gathering pipelines and compressor stations, we are subject to various stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly response actions. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customers’ operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers’ operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customers’ operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in joint and several, strict liability for administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where wastes resulting from our operations are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws, regulations and permits or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. We may also experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenues, which in turn could affect our profitability. In addition, our customers’ liability under, or costs and expenditures to comply with, environmental and worker health and safety regulations could lead to delays and increased operating costs, which could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through our gathering systems. There is no assurance that changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment will not have a significant impact on our operations and profitability. Our operations also pose risks of environmental liability due to leakage, migration, releases or spills from our operations to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons, or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters” for more information. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas that we gather, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, EPA adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that 26establish pre-construction and operating permit requirements for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. Under these regulations, for example, facilities required to obtain PSD permits because of their potential criteria pollutant emissions must comply with BACT-driven GHG permit limits established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA, on a case-by-case basis. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain onshore oil and natural gas processing and fractionating facilities. In December 2015, the EPA finalized rules that added new sources to the scope of the GHG monitoring and reporting rule. These new sources include gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells. These changes to EPA’s GHG emissions reporting rule could result in increased compliance costs. We are monitoring GHG emissions from our operations in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting rule.Additionally, while Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, the prospect for adoption of significant legislation at the federal level to reduce GHG emissions is perceived to be low at this time.Nevertheless, the Obama Administration has announced it intends to adopt additional regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs and to encourage greater use of low carbon technologies. In August 2015, the EPA proposed a suite of requirements and draft guidance related to the reduction in methane emissions from certain equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The BLM and the PADEP have also proposed rules related to the control of methane emissions. Compliance with rules to control methane emissions will likely require enhanced record-keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and the increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules will also likely require hiring additional personnel to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. These new and proposed rules could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that limit emissions of GHGs could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that exploration and production operators produce, some of whom are our customers, which could thereby reduce demand for our midstream services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, it is uncertain if they would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.The Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act govern our operations and additional restrictions may be imposed in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The Endangered Species Act (“ESA”) restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (“MBTA”). The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and state agencies may designate critical or suitable habitat areas that they believe are necessary for the survival of threatened or endangered species. Such a designation could materially restrict use of or access to federal, state and private lands. Some of our operations are located in areas that are designated as habitats for endangered or threatened species or that may attract migratory birds. In addition, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and state agencies regularly review species that are listing candidates, and designations of additional endangered or threatened species, or critical or suitable habitat, under the ESA could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: •perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; •identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; •improve data collection, integration and analysis; •repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and •implement preventive and mitigating actions. The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, among other things, increases the maximum civil penalty for pipeline safety violations and directs the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules or standards relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation and testing to 27confirm the material strength of pipe operating above 30% of specified minimum yield strength in high consequence areas. Effective October 25, 2013, the PHMSA finalized rules that increased the maximum administrative civil penalties for violations of the pipeline safety laws and regulations that occur after January 3, 2012 to $200,000 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,000,000 for a related series of violations. Should our operations fail to comply with PHMSA or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. States also are pursuing regulatory programs intended to safely build pipeline infrastructure. For instance, the Pennsylvania Pipeline Infrastructure Task Force is currently developing policies and guidelines to assist in pipeline development to, among other goals, ensure pipeline safety and integrity during operation of the pipeline. PHMSA has also published advanced notices of proposed rulemaking to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to extend the integrity management requirements to additional types of facilities, such as gathering pipelines and related facilities. Additionally, in 2012, PHMSA issued an advisory bulletin providing guidance on verification of records related to pipeline maximum allowable operating pressure, which could result in additional requirements for the pressure testing of pipelines or the reduction of maximum operating pressures to verifiable pressures. The adoption of these and other laws or regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue new capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, all of which could require us to incur increased operational costs that could be significant. While we cannot predict the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives, such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our cash flow. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations—Pipeline Safety Regulation” for more information. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute cash and, accordingly, the market price for our common units. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards inherent in the gathering and compression of natural gas, including: •damage to pipelines, compressor stations, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by natural disasters, acts of terrorism and acts of third parties; •damage from construction, farm and utility equipment, as well as other subsurface activity (for example, mine subsidence); •leaks of natural gas or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; •fires, ruptures and explosions; •other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; and •hazards experienced by other operators that may affect our operations by instigating increased regulations and oversight. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. We depend on the services of a relatively small group of our general partner’s and Rice Energy’s senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Because competition for experienced personnel in the midstream industry is intense, we may not be able to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience. The loss of the services of our general partner’s senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any officers or employees apart from those seconded to us and rely solely on officers of our general partner and employees of Rice Energy. We are managed and operated by the board of directors of our general partner. Affiliates of Rice Energy conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to our general partner and Rice Energy. If our general partner and the officers and employees of Rice Energy do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure Our general partner and its affiliates, including Rice Energy, which owns our general partner, may have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders. Rice Energy indirectly owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner. All of our officers and a majority of our directors are also officers and/or directors of Rice Energy. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to Rice Energy. Further, our directors and officers who are also directors and officers of Rice Energy have a fiduciary duty to manage Rice Energy in the best interests of the stockholders of Rice Energy. Conflicts of interest will arise between Rice Energy and any of its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our common unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Rice Energy over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: •neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Rice Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us; •Rice Energy, as our anchor customer, has an economic incentive to cause us not to seek higher gathering fees, even if such higher fees would reflect fees that could be obtained in arm’s-length, third-party transactions; •Rice Energy may choose to shift the focus of its investment and operations to areas not serviced by our assets; •actions taken by our general partner may affect the amount of cash available to pay distributions to unitholders or accelerate the right to convert subordinated units; •the directors and officers of Rice Energy have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Rice Energy, which may be contrary to our interests and the interest of our unitholders; •our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Rice Energy, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement, including with respect to conflicts of interest; •except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; •our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions; •disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with Rice Energy and its affiliates; •our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; 29•our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and the amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, which reduces operating surplus. The determination of estimated maintenance capital expenditures can affect the amount of cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders which, in turn, may affect the ability of the subordinated units owned by GP Holdings to convert; •our partnership agreement limits the liability of, and replaces the duties owed by, our general partner and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; •common unitholders have no right to enforce obligations of our general partner and its affiliates under agreements with us; •contracts between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other, are not and will not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations; •our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $35.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus, which may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights; •our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; •our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; •our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; •our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; •we may not choose to retain separate counsel for ourselves or for the holders of common units; •our general partner’s affiliates may compete with us, and our general partner and its affiliates have limited obligations to present business opportunities to us; and •the holder or holders of our incentive distribution rights may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of incentive distribution levels without the approval of our unitholders, which may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Ongoing cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making distributions on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services to us and reimbursements paid by our general partner to Rice Energy for customary management and general administrative services. There is no limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the expenses that are allocable to us in good faith. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. We expect to distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our partners, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We plan to distribute most of our cash available for distribution and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy may cause our growth to proceed at a slower pace than that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of 30distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. In addition, the incurrence of commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise, free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the parties where the language in our partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate business opportunities among us and its other affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of the general partner; •how to exercise its voting rights with respect to any units it owns; •whether to exercise its registration rights; and •whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. Limited partners who own common units are treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •provides that whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in the absence of bad faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was not adverse to the interest of our partnership; •provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and 31•provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: •approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or •approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner approves the affiliate transaction or resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption and proving that such decision was not in good faith. Our partnership agreement includes exclusive forum, venue and jurisdiction provisions. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of Delaware courts. Our partnership agreement also provides that any unitholder bringing an unsuccessful action will be obligated to reimburse us for any costs we have incurred in connection with such unsuccessful claim. Our partnership agreement is governed by Delaware law. Our partnership agreement includes exclusive forum, venue and jurisdiction provisions designating Delaware courts as the exclusive venue for most claims, suits, actions and proceedings involving us or our officers, directors and employees. If a dispute were to arise between a limited partner and us or our officers, directors or employees, the limited partner may be required to pursue its legal remedies in Delaware, which may be an inconvenient or distant location and which is considered to be a more corporate-friendly environment. In addition, if any unitholder brings any of the aforementioned claims, suits, actions or proceedings and such person does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought, then such person shall be obligated to reimburse us and our affiliates for all fees, costs and expenses of every kind and description, including but not limited to all reasonable attorneys’ fees and other litigation expenses, that the parties may incur in connection with such claim, suit, action or proceeding. Limited partners who own common units irrevocably consent to these provisions and potential reimbursement obligations regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of Delaware courts. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade. Compared to the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Rice Energy, as a result of it indirectly owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Unlike publicly-traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. Unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates, including Rice Energy, own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. Our general partner may not be removed except for cause by vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units, including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. As of December 31, 2015, Rice Energy indirectly owned 41% of our outstanding common and subordinated units. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. 32Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures made to maintain, over the long term, our operating capacity or operating income. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our general partner’s board of directors at least once a year, provided that any change is approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. GP Holdings may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. GP Holdings has the right, as the holder of our incentive distribution rights, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If GP Holdings elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to GP Holdings will equal the number of common units that would have entitled GP Holdings to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the quarter prior to the reset election equal to the distribution on the incentive distribution rights in the quarter prior to the reset election. We anticipate that GP Holdings would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that GP Holdings or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. GP Holdings may transfer all or a portion of the incentive distribution rights in the future. After any such transfer, the holder or holders of a majority of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to exercise the right to reset the target distribution levels. The incentive distribution rights held by Rice Energy may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. GP Holdings may transfer our incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If GP Holdings transfers our incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership of our general partner interest, it may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of our incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive 33distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of GP Holdings selling or contributing additional midstream assets to us, as GP Holdings would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates (including Rice Energy), their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. We may issue additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline. GP Holdings may sell common units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of February 22, 2016, GP Holdings held 3,623 common units and all 28,753,623 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. Additionally, we have agreed to provide GP Holdings with certain registration rights, pursuant to which we may be required to register common units they hold under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement and our partnership agreement, we may be required to undertake a future public or private offering of common units. The sale of these units in public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates (including Rice Energy) own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (i) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (ii) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our 34partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. Our general partner and its affiliates (including Rice Energy) own an aggregate of less than 1% of our common and 100% of our subordinated units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own 41% of our common units. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we currently own assets and conduct business in Pennsylvania. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if that unitholder were a general partner if: •a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or •a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment.The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our quarterly distributions;•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•events affecting Rice Energy;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of our common units; and•other factors described in these “Risk Factors.”If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Rice Energy personnel are responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting over our financial statements.35While we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units.For as long as we are an “emerging growth company,” we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the JOBS Act. We are classified as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an “emerging growth company,” which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (4) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, become a large accelerated filer, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to “emerging growth companies,” our unitholders will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not “emerging growth companies.” If some investors find our common units to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our trading price may be more volatile. The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) does not require a publicly-traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are currently traded on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly-traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded partnership. As a publicly-traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our initial public offering. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require publicly-traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that will further increase our costs. Before we are able to make distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay or reserve cash for our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly-traded partnership. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by the costs associated with being a publicly-traded partnership. As a result of our initial public offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We expect these rules and regulations to increase certain of our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly-traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our SEC reporting requirements. 36We also expect to incur significant expense in order to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Because of the limitations in coverage for directors, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board or as executive officers. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. We have requested and obtained a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, based on facts presented in the private letter ruling request, our income from the delivery of water and the collection, treatment, and transport of flowback, produced water, and other fluids constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, no ruling has been or will be requested regarding our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Specifically, we currently own assets and conduct business in Pennsylvania and Ohio. Imposition of a similar tax on us in other jurisdictions that we may expand to could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget proposed by the President recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2022. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama administration’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service, on May 5, 2015, issued proposed regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. We do not believe the proposed regulations affect our ability to qualify as a publicly traded partnership. However, finalized regulations could modify the amount of our gross income that we are able to treat as qualifying income for the purposes of the qualifying income requirement.Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.37If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to you.We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a Partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year.Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of our unitholders’ allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, our unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Allocations and/or distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If our unitholders are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, they should consult their tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this approach. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. 38We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining unitholder’s allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methods or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character, and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. As of December 31, 2015, Rice Energy indirectly owned 41% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by Rice Energy of all or a portion of its interests in us could, in conjunction with the trading of common units held by the public, result in a termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly-traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the 39IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live.In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.We currently own assets and conduct business in Pennsylvania and Ohio, each of which imposes a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.