D. Risk Factors. Our business has significant risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as all other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before making an investment decision regarding our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are those significant risk factors currently known and specific to us that we believe are relevant to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with no commercial products and prediction of future performance is very difficult. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on novel cancer immunotherapy products. We have no products or therapeutics approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenue from product supplies or royalties. Our therapeutic candidates are based on engineered T-cell receptors, or TCRs, and are new and largely unproven. Our limited operating history, particularly in light of the rapidly evolving cancer immunotherapy field, may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that any potential product candidate will fail to demonstrate adequate effect or an acceptable safety profile, gain regulatory approval and become commercially viable. Our inability to address these risks successfully would have a materially adverse effect on our business and prospects. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception and expect to continue to incur net losses in the future. We have generated losses since our inception in 2008, during which time we have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and development efforts relating to our TCR therapeutic candidates, including engaging in activities to manufacture and supply our TCR therapeutic candidates for clinical trials in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, conducting clinical trials of our TCR therapeutic candidates, providing general and administrative support for these operations and protecting our intellectual property. We do not have any products approved for sale and have not generated any revenue from product supplies or royalties. Based on our current plans, we do not expect to generate product or royalty revenues unless and until we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, any of our TCR therapeutic candidates. For the years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred net losses of £13.7 million, £7.5 million and £5.6 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of £30.0 million. We expect to continue incurring significant losses as we continue with our research and development programs and to incur general and administrative costs associated with our operations. The extent of funding required to develop our product candidates is difficult to estimate given the novel nature of our TCR therapeutic candidates and their un-proven route to market. Our profitability is dependent upon the successful development, approval, and commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates, successfully achieving GSK milestones and achieving a level of revenues adequate to support our cost structure. We may never achieve profitability, and unless and until we do, we will continue to need to raise additional cash. We have never generated any revenue from sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates and our ability to generate revenue from sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates and become profitable depends significantly on our success in a number of factors. We have no TCR therapeutic candidates approved for commercial sale, have not generated any revenue from sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates, and do not anticipate generating any revenue from sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates until some time after we receive regulatory approval, if at all, for the commercial sale of a TCR therapeutic candidate. We intend to fund future operations through milestone payments under our collaboration and license agreement with GSK and through additional equity financings. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our success in many factors, including: 3 Table of Contents · completing research regarding, and preclinical and clinical development of, our TCR therapeutic candidates; · obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing authorizations for our TCR therapeutic candidates for which we complete clinical trials; · progressing our clinical trials within predicted timeframes and without any substantial delays, for example as may be caused by delays in patient recruitment, regulatory requirements to hold or suspend any clinical trials or delays in obtaining approvals required to conduct clinical trials; · developing sustainable and scalable manufacturing and supply processes for our TCR therapeutic candidates, including establishing and maintaining commercially viable supply relationships with third parties and establishing our own commercial manufacturing capabilities and infrastructure; · launching and commercializing TCR therapeutic candidates for which we obtain regulatory approvals and marketing authorizations, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor; · obtaining market acceptance of our TCR therapeutic candidates as viable treatment options; · addressing any competing technological and market developments; · identifying, assessing, acquiring and/or developing new TCR therapeutic candidates; · maintaining, protecting, and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how; and · attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Even if one or more of our TCR therapeutic candidates is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved TCR therapeutic candidate. Our expenses could increase beyond expectations if the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, or any other regulatory agency requires changes to our manufacturing processes or assays, or for us to perform preclinical programs and clinical or other types of trials in addition to those that we currently anticipate. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals to market one or more of our TCR therapeutic candidates, our revenue will be dependent, in part, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval, the accepted price for the TCR therapeutic candidate, the ability to get reimbursement at any price, and whether we own the commercial rights for that territory. If the number of our addressable disease patients is not as significant as we estimate, the indication approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect, or the reasonably accepted population for treatment is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may not generate significant revenue from sales or supplies of such TCR therapeutic candidates, even if approved. If we are not able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved TCR therapeutic candidates, we may never become profitable. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Our operations have required substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to continue the development of our TCR therapeutic candidates, including future clinical trials. If we receive approval for any of our TCR therapeutic candidates, we will require significant additional amounts in order to launch and commercialize these therapeutic candidates. As of June 30, 2015, we had a total cash position of $284.3 million which comprised $229.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $55.3 million of short-term deposits. We expect to use these funds to advance and accelerate the clinical development of our MAGE-A10 TCR therapeutic candidate, to further develop and enhance our manufacturing capabilities and secure a commercially viable manufacturing platform for all of our TCR therapeutic candidates, to advance additional TCR therapeutic candidates into preclinical testing and progress such TCR therapeutic candidates through to clinical trials as quickly as possible and to fund working capital, including other general corporate purposes. We believe that such proceeds, our existing cash, and cash equivalents together with milestone payments to us under the GSK collaboration and license agreement will be sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, including for at least the next 24 months. However, changing circumstances beyond our control may cause us to increase our spending significantly faster than we currently anticipate. We may require additional capital for the further development and commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates and may need to raise additional funds sooner if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. 4 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We have no committed source of additional capital and if we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates or other research and development initiatives. Our license and supply agreements may also be terminated if we are unable to meet the payment obligations under these agreements. We could be required to seek collaborators for our TCR therapeutic candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available or relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to our TCR therapeutic candidates in markets where we otherwise would seek to pursue development or commercialization ourselves. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Risks Related to the Development of Our TCR Therapeutic Candidates Our business is highly dependent on our lead NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, which will require significant additional clinical testing before we can seek regulatory approval and begin commercialization of any of our TCR therapeutic candidates. There is no guarantee that any of our TCR therapeutic candidates will achieve regulatory approval or proceed to the next stage of clinical programs. The process for obtaining marketing approval for any candidate is very long and risky and there will be significant challenges for us to address in order to obtain marketing approval, if at all. There is no guarantee that the results obtained in current clinical trials for our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate will be sufficient to plan one or more pivotal clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval or marketing authorization. Negative results in this lead clinical program of our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate or in other investigator-initiated clinical programs utilizing our NY-ESO therapeutic candidate may also impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for other TCR therapeutic candidates, either at all or within anticipated timeframes because, although the TCR therapeutic candidate may target a different cancer peptide, the underlying technology platform, manufacturing process and development process is the same for all of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Accordingly, a failure in any one program may affect the ability to obtain regulatory approval to continue or conduct clinical programs for other TCR therapeutic candidates. We may not be able to submit INDs, or the foreign equivalent outside of the United States, to commence additional clinical trials for other TCR therapeutic candidates on the timeframes we expect, and even if we are able to, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not permit us to proceed with planned clinical trials. Progression of new TCR therapeutic candidates into clinical trials is inherently risky and dependent on the results obtained in preclinical programs, the results of other clinical programs and results of third-party programs that utilize common components, such as production of the lentiviral vector lot used for production and administration of our TCR therapeutic candidate. If results are not available when expected or problems are identified during therapy development, we may experience significant delays in development of pipeline products and in existing clinical programs, which may impact our ability to receive regulatory approval. This may also impact our ability to achieve certain financial milestones and the expected timeframes to market any of our TCR therapeutic candidate. Failure to submit further INDs or the foreign equivalent and commence additional clinical programs will significantly limit our opportunity to generate revenue. We are currently in the process of completing preclinical development of our AFP therapeutic candidate. Our ability to submit an IND for our AFP therapeutic candidate will depend on the completion of that preclinical development and the development of a protocol for use of that AFP therapeutic candidate which is acceptable to the FDA or any foreign equivalent regulatory authority. Progression of our AFP therapeutic candidate into clinical programs will depend on our ability to find clinical sites able and willing to carry out such clinical programs and recruitment of patients into resulting clinical programs. 5 Table of Contents Our TCR therapeutic candidates being developed may have potentially fatal cross-reactivity to other peptides or protein sequences within the body. One of our prior TCR therapeutic candidates, designed to target a MAGE-A3 cancer-specific peptide, recognized another unrelated peptide from a protein called TITIN, expressed within normal cardiac and other muscle tissues in patients. As a result of this cross-reactivity to the TITIN protein in the heart, two patients died during our MAGE-A3 clinical program, the program was put on pause, then formally placed on hold by the FDA, after which we abandoned the program. We subsequently developed a preclinical safety testing program that identifies potential cross-reactivity risks that has not yet been used for our existing TCR therapeutic candidates, and accordingly, there may be gaps or other problems detected in the testing program at a later date. Even with the use of this testing program, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will permit us to begin clinical trials of any additional TCR therapeutic candidates or that other off-target cross-reactivity will not be identified or present in any patient group. Failure to develop an effective preclinical safety testing program will prevent or delay clinical trials of any TCR therapeutic candidate. Detection of any cross-reactivity will halt or delay any ongoing clinical trials for any TCR therapeutic candidate and prevent or delay regulatory approval. Given that the underlying technology platform, manufacturing process and development process is the same for all of our TCR therapies, issues pertaining to cross-reactivity for one TCR therapeutic candidate may impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for other TCR therapeutic candidates undergoing development and clinical trials, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Cross-reactivity or allo-reactivity (binding to peptides presented on other Human Leukocyte Antigen, or HLA, types) could also occur where the affinity-enhanced engineered TCR resulting from administration of our TCR therapeutic candidate binds to peptides presented by HLAs other than the HLA type for which the relevant TCR was developed. We have also developed a preclinical screening process to identify allo-reactivity risk and have identified such allo-reactivity for one rare allele in the case of our MAGE-A10 TCR therapeutic candidate. Any allo- reactivity or other cross-reactivity that impacts patient safety could materially impact our ability to advance our TCR therapeutic candidates into clinical trials or to proceed to market approval and commercialization. In addition, there is no guarantee that exclusion of patients with the allo- reactive allele will successfully eliminate the risk of allo-reactivity, and serious side effects for patients may still exist. Given that the underlying technology platform, manufacturing process and development process are the same for all of our TCR therapeutic candidates, issues pertaining to allo- reactivity for one TCR therapeutic candidate may impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for other TCR therapeutic candidates undergoing development and clinical trials, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our T-cell therapy, which is a type of cell therapy that uses gene therapy technology, represents a novel approach to cancer treatment that could result in heightened regulatory scrutiny, delays in clinical development, or delays in or our inability to achieve regulatory approval or commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Use of our TCR therapeutic candidates to treat a patient requires the use of gene therapy technology, which involves combining the patient’s T cells with our lentiviral delivery vector containing the gene for our affinity-enhanced engineered TCR. This is a novel treatment approach that carries inherent development risks. We are therefore constantly evaluating and adapting our TCR therapeutic candidates following the results obtained during development work and the clinical programs. Further development, characterization and evaluation may be required, depending on the results obtained, in particular where such results suggest any potential safety risk for patients. The need to develop further assays, or to modify in any way the protocols related to our TCR therapeutic candidates to improve safety or effectiveness, may delay the clinical program, regulatory approval or commercialization, if approved at all, of any TCR therapeutic candidate. Consequently, this may have a material impact on our ability to receive milestone payments and/or generate revenues from our TCR therapeutic candidates. In addition, given the novelty of our TCR therapeutic candidates, the end users and medical personnel require a substantial amount of education and training in their administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Regulatory authorities have very limited experience with commercial engineered cell therapies and TCR therapeutic candidates for the treatment of cancer. As a result, regulators may be more risk adverse or require substantial dialogue and education as part of the normal regulatory approval process for each stage of development of any TCR therapeutic candidate. To date, no gene therapy products have been approved in the United States and only one has been approved in the European Union under exceptional circumstances. Consequently, it is difficult to predict and evaluate what additional regulatory hurdles may apply to the development of our TCR therapeutic candidates and whether additional investment, time or resources will be required to overcome any such hurdles. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, because our technology involves the genetic modification of patient cells ex-vivo using a viral vector, we are subject to many of the challenges and risks of gene therapy, including the following challenges: · Regulatory requirements governing gene and cell therapy products have changed frequently and may continue to change in the future. To date, no products that involve the genetic modification of patient cells have been approved in the United States and only one has been approved in the European Union, or EU. · Random gene insertion associated with retrovirus-mediated genetically modified products, known as insertional oncogenesis, could lead to lymphoma, leukemia or other cancers, or other aberrantly functioning cells. Insertional oncogenesis was seen in early gene therapy studies conducted outside of the United States in 2003. In those studies, insertional oncogenesis resulted in patients developing leukemia following treatment with the relevant gene therapy, with one patient dying. As a result of the data from those studies, the FDA temporarily halted gene therapy trials in the United States. The previous trials involved modification of stem cells rather than T cells and utilized a murine gamma-retroviral vector rather than a lentiviral vector. We cannot guarantee that insertional oncogenesis resulting from administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates will not occur. · Although our viral vectors are not able to replicate, there may be a risk with the use of retroviral or lentiviral vectors that they could undergo recombination and lead to new or reactivated pathogenic strains of virus or other infectious diseases. · There is the potential for delayed adverse events following exposure to gene therapy products due to persistent biological activity of the genetic material or other components of products used to carry the genetic material. In part for this reason, the FDA recommends a 15-year follow-up observation period for all surviving patients who receive treatment using gene therapies in clinical trials. We may need to adopt such an observation period for our therapeutic candidates; however, the FDA does not require that the tracking be complete prior to its review of the Biologics License Application, or BLA. · Clinical trials using genetically modified cells conducted at institutions that receive funding for recombinant DNA research from the U.S. National Institutes of Health, or NIH, are subject to review by the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities’ Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, or RAC. Although the FDA decides whether individual protocols may proceed, the RAC review process can delay or impede the initiation of a clinical trial, even if the FDA has reviewed the study and approved its initiation. If adverse events of the type described above were to occur, further advancement of our clinical trials could be halted or delayed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, heightened regulatory scrutiny of gene therapy product candidates may result in delays and increased costs in bringing a product candidate to market, if at all. Delay or failure to obtain, or unexpected costs in obtaining, the regulatory approval necessary to bring a potential product to market could decrease our ability to generate revenue in the future. T-cell therapy is a novel approach to cancer treatment that creates significant increased risk in terms of side-effect profile, ability to satisfy regulatory requirements associated with clinical trials and the long- term viability of administered TCR therapeutic candidates. Development of a pharmaceutical or biologic therapy or product has inherent risks based on differences in patient population and responses to therapy and treatment. The mechanism of action and impact on other systems and tissues within the human body following administration of our TCR therapeutic candidate is not completely understood, which means that we cannot predict the long-term effects of treatment with our TCR therapeutic candidates. We are aware that certain patients do not respond to our TCR therapeutic candidates and that other patients may relapse or cease to present the peptide being targeted by such TCR therapeutic candidates. The percentage of the patient population in which these events may occur is unknown, but the inability of patients to respond and the possibility of relapse may impact our ability to conduct clinical trials, to obtain regulatory approvals, if at all, and to successfully commercialize any TCR therapeutic candidate. 7 Table of Contents Our clinical trials and the investigator-initiated clinical trials using our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic are still in the early stages, and it is difficult to predict the results that will be obtained in ongoing clinical trials or the next phase or phases of any clinical program. There is a significant risk at each stage of any clinical program that serious adverse events or low efficacy, as well as less favorable safety profiles, will prevent our TCR therapeutic candidates from proceeding further or will result in those programs being suspended or being placed on hold (whether voluntarily or as a result of a regulatory authority requirement). For example, there is a risk that the target peptide to which any TCR therapeutic candidate is directed may be present in both cancer cells and other non-cancer patient cells and tissues. Should this be the case patients may suffer a range of side effects associated with the TCR therapeutic candidate binding to both the cancer cells and other cells and tissues. The extent of such side effects will depend on the levels of the target peptide in each patient’s cells and tissues and the nature of their cells and tissues. In our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate trials, adverse events that have been reported in more than 15% of patients and considered at least possibly related to our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate include diarrhea, rash, fever, fatigue, disturbed liver function tests, low neutrophil or lymphocyte count, nausea and anemia. Several events in our U.S. clinical trials have been classified as serious adverse events. Related serious adverse events seen in our sponsored clinical programs and occurring in more than one patient include neutropenia, pyrexia, Cytokine-Release Syndrome, Graft Versus Host Disease, or GVHD, and dehydration. GVHD, impacting the skin and gastrointestinal tract, has only been reported in our myeloma transplant study involving autologous stem cell, or auto-SCT. To date, we have also seen a suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction of grade 4 supraventricular tachycardia, or SVT, in one patient and grade 4 respiratory failure with grade 4 febrile neutropenia in a second patient in our sponsored trials. In addition to our sponsored clinical programs, our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic is being used in an investigator-initiated clinical program in Europe. The clinical program forms part of a European Framework grant collaboration program known as “ATTACK 2” (Adoptive engineered T-cell Targeting to Activate Cancer Killing) which is led by the University of Manchester. This clinical program currently uses a different protocol with a different pre-conditioning regimen and includes the use of Interleukin-2 (IL-2). To date, two patients have been treated in this program, one of whom passed away 46 days after T-cell infusion. The underlying cause of death is under investigation by the ATTACK consortium and Adaptimmune. Enrollment in this study has been placed on hold by the study sponsor pending the results of this investigation. The enrollment of patients in our own clinical trials using our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate have so far not been affected, although regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom and United States have been informed of the event. Whether our clinical trials are affected will depend on the results of the investigation. Should these investigations identify any safety risk to patients caused by our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, our clinical programs could be placed on hold. Because administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates is patient-specific, the process requires careful handling of patient-specific products and fail-safe tracking, namely the need to ensure that the tracking process is without error and that patient samples are tracked from patient removal, through manufacturing and re-administration to the same patient. It is difficult to predict the investment in appropriate mechanisms and systems that will be required to ensure such fail-safe tracking and there is always a risk of a failure in any such system. Inability to develop or adopt an acceptable fail-safe tracking methodology and handling regime may delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval. This risk may be increased where our TCR therapeutic candidates are used in clinical programs that we do not control or sponsor and, should an error be made in the administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates in such clinical programs, this could affect the steps required in our own clinical programs and manufacturing process requiring the addition of further tracking mechanisms to ensure fail-safe tracking. Validation of our TCR therapeutic candidates requires access to human samples but there is no guarantee that such samples can be obtained or, if they can be obtained, that the terms under which they are provided will be favorable to us. Certain of the steps involved in validating and carrying out safety testing in relation to our TCR therapeutic candidates require access to samples (e.g., tissues samples or cell samples) from third parties. Such samples may be obtained from universities or research institutions and will often be provided, subject to satisfaction of certain terms and conditions. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain samples in sufficient quantities to enable development of and use of the full preclinical safety testing program for all TCR therapeutic candidates undergoing development. In addition, the terms under which such samples are available may not be acceptable to us or may restrict our use of any generated results or require us to make payments to the third parties. 8 Table of Contents Our TCR therapeutic candidates and their application are not fully scientifically understood and are still undergoing validation and investigation. Our TCR therapeutic candidates and their potential associated risks are still under investigation. For example, there is a potential risk that, given that the TCR chains are produced separately and then assembled within patient T cells into full TCRs, the TCR chains from both transduced and naturally occurring T cells could be assembled into an unintended end TCR due to mis-pairing of TCR chains, which could create unknown recognition and cross-reactivity problems within patients. Although this phenomenon has not been reported in humans, it remains a theoretical risk for our TCR therapeutic candidates and is still being studied and investigated. This could delay regulatory approval, if any, for the relevant TCR therapeutic candidates. To the extent that any mis-pairing of TCR chains is identified, either in our or our competitors’ clinical trials, additional investment may be required in order to modify relevant TCR therapeutic candidates and to further assess and validate the risk of such mis-pairing to patients. There is also no guarantee that following modification of the relevant TCR therapeutic candidate, such modified TCR therapeutic candidate will remain suitable for patient treatment, that it will eliminate the risk of mis-pairing of TCR chains or that regulatory approval will be obtained at all or on a timely basis in relation to such modified TCR therapeutic candidates. The occurrence of such events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to identify and validate additional target peptides or isolate and develop affinity-enhanced TCRs that are suitable for validation and further development. The success of our TCR therapeutic candidates depends on both the identification of target peptides presented on cancer cells, which can be bound by TCRs, and isolation and affinity enhancement of TCRs, which can be used to treat patients if regulatory approval is obtained. There is an inherent risk that the number of target peptides that can be identified and/or our ability to develop and isolate suitable TCRs for affinity enhancement could be significantly lower than projected or that no additional TCR therapeutic candidates suitable for further development can be identified. Any failure to identify and validate further target peptides will reduce the number of potential TCR therapeutic candidates that we can successfully develop, which in turn will reduce the commercial opportunities available to us and increase our reliance on our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate. In addition, there is no guarantee that our attempts to develop further TCR therapeutic candidates will result in candidates for which the safety and efficacy profiles enable progression to and through preclinical testing. Failure to identify further candidates for progression into preclinical testing and clinical programs will significantly impact our commercial returns, increase our reliance on the success of our existing NY-ESO and MAGE-A10 TCR therapeutic candidate programs and may significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If resources become limited or if we fail to identify suitable target peptides, naturally occurring TCRs or affinity-enhanced TCRs, our ability to submit INDs for further TCR therapeutic candidates may be delayed or never realized, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business. We may encounter substantial delays in our clinical trials or may not be able to conduct our trials on the timelines we expect. Conduct of clinical trials is dependent on finding clinical sites prepared to carry out the relevant clinical trials, recruitment of patients both in terms of number and type of patients and general performance of the relevant clinical site. It is difficult to predict how quickly we will be able to recruit suitable patients, find suitable sites, begin clinical programs and administer our TCR therapeutic candidates. In addition, our clinical trials will compete with other clinical trials for TCR therapeutic candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our TCR therapeutic candidates, which will reduce the number and types of patients available to us, because some patients who might have opted to enroll in our trials may instead opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Because the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we currently, and expect to continue to, conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which will reduce the number of patients who are available for our clinical trials at such clinical trial sites. Moreover, because our TCR therapeutic candidates represent a departure from more commonly used methods for cancer treatment, potential patients and their physicians may opt to use conventional therapies, such as chemotherapy and hematopoietic cell transplantation, rather than enrollment in any of our current or future clinical trials. 9 Table of Contents Even if we are able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials, delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of the planned clinical trials, which could prevent completion of these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We may not be able to develop or obtain approval for the analytical assays and companion diagnostics required for commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates requires the use of an immuno- chemistry screening assay in which patients are screened for the presence of the cancer peptide targeted by our TCR therapeutic candidates. This assay requires the identification of suitable antibodies which can be used to identify the presence of the relevant target cancer peptide. If safe and effective use of a biologic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, such as a test to detect patients with HLA type A2, then the FDA generally requires approval or clearance of the diagnostic, known as a companion diagnostic, concurrently with approval of the therapeutic product. To date, the FDA has generally required in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to cancer treatment to obtain a pre-market approval, or PMA, which can take up to several years, for that diagnostic simultaneously with approval of the biologic product. We expect that, for our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States will require the development and regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic assay as a condition to approval. We also expect that the FDA may require PMA supplemental approvals for use of that same companion diagnostic as a condition of approval of additional TCR therapeutic candidates. We do not have experience or capabilities in developing or commercializing these companion diagnostics and plan to rely in large part on third parties to perform these functions. Companion diagnostic assays are subject to regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States as medical devices and require separate regulatory approval prior to the use of such diagnostic assays with our TCR therapeutic candidates. If we, or any third parties that we engage to assist us, are unable to successfully develop companion diagnostic assays for use with our TCR therapeutic candidates, or are unable to obtain regulatory approval or experience delays in either development or obtaining regulatory approval, we may be unable to identify patients with the specific profile targeted by our TCR therapeutic candidates for enrollment in our clinical trials. Accordingly, further investment may be required to further develop or obtain the required regulatory approval for the relevant companion diagnostic assay, which would delay or substantially impact our ability to conduct further clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval. Manufacturing and administering our TCR therapeutic candidates is complex and we may encounter difficulties in production, particularly with respect to process development or scaling up of our manufacturing capabilities. If we encounter such difficulties, our ability to provide supply of our TCR therapeutic candidates for clinical trials or for commercial purposes could be delayed or stopped. The process of manufacturing and administering our TCR therapeutic candidates is complex and highly regulated. The manufacture of our TCR therapeutic candidates involves complex processes, including manufacture of a lentiviral delivery vector containing the gene for our affinity-enhanced engineered TCR. Administration of our TCR therapeutic candidates includes harvesting white blood cells from the patient, isolating certain T cells from the white blood cells, combining patient T cells with our lentiviral delivery vector through a process known as transduction, expanding the transduced T cells to obtain the desired dose, and ultimately infusing the modified T cells back into the patient’s body. As a result of the complexities, our manufacturing and supply costs are likely to be higher than those at more traditional manufacturing processes and the manufacturing process is less reliable and more difficult to reproduce. Our manufacturing process is and will be susceptible to product loss or failure due to logistical issues, including manufacturing issues associated with the differences in patients’ white blood cells, interruptions in the manufacturing process, contamination, equipment or reagent failure, supplier error and variability in TCR therapeutic candidate and patient characteristics. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects, and other supply disruptions. 10 Table of Contents If for any reason we (or any other manufacturer of our therapy) lose a patient’s white blood cells or such material gets contaminated or later processing steps fail at any point, the manufacturing process of the TCR therapeutic candidate for that patient will need to be completely restarted and the resulting delay may adversely affect that patient’s outcome. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our TCR therapeutic candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our TCR therapeutic candidates are made or administered, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. As our TCR therapeutic candidates progress through preclinical programs and clinical trials towards approval and commercialization, it is expected that various aspects of the manufacturing and administration process will be altered in an effort to optimize processes and results. We have already identified some improvements to our manufacturing and administration processes, but these changes may not achieve the intended objectives, and could cause our TCR therapeutic candidates to perform differently and affect the results of planned clinical trials or other future clinical trials. In addition, such changes may require amendments to be made to regulatory applications which may further delay the timeframes under which modified manufacturing processes can be used for any TCR therapeutic candidate. For example, we are planning to make changes to the manufacturing process for cell products and vector material used in our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate for which we are likely to need to conduct small clinical trials to gather safety data for each of the different indications for which larger clinical trials are planned. If our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate manufactured under the new process has a worse safety or efficacy profile than the prior investigational product, we may need to re-evaluate the use of that manufacturing process, which could significantly delay or even terminate the progress of our clinical trials. Developing a commercially viable process is a difficult and uncertain task, and there are risks associated with scaling to the level required for advanced clinical trials or commercialization, including, among others, increased costs, potential problems with process scale-out, process reproducibility, stability issues, lot consistency, and timely availability of reagents or raw materials. We may ultimately be unable to reduce the expenses associated with our TCR therapeutic candidates to levels that will allow us to achieve a profitable return on investment. We are in the process of developing and transferring new processes to facilitate such manufacture into third-party contract suppliers. Such process scale-up and transfer will require a demonstration of comparability between the product used in clinical trials and the potential commercial product manufactured by the new process at the new facility. If we are unable to demonstrate that our commercial scale product is comparable to the product used in clinical trials, we may not receive regulatory approval for that product without additional clinical trials. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to make the required modifications within currently anticipated timeframes or that such modifications, when made, will obtain regulatory approval or that the new processes or modified processes will successfully be transferred to the third party contract suppliers within currently anticipated timeframes. Any delay or failure in obtaining approval will impact our ability to commercialize and obtain marketing approval for our TCR therapeutic candidates. Such failure may also impact our collaboration with GSK and result in GSK not exercising options or not developing any of our additional TCR therapeutic candidates. Even if we are successful, our manufacturing capabilities could be affected by increased costs, unexpected delays, equipment failures, labor shortages, natural disasters, power failures and numerous other factors that could prevent us from realizing the intended benefits of our manufacturing strategy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have insurance to cover certain business interruption events, particularly research and development expenditure (capped at £10 million) and committed costs (capped at £250,000). However, because our level of insurance is capped, it may be insufficient to fully compensate us if any of these events were to occur in the future. Our manufacturing process needs to comply with FDA regulations and foreign regulations relating to the quality and reliability of such processes. Any failure to comply with relevant regulations could result in delays in or termination of our clinical programs and suspension or withdrawal of any regulatory approvals. In order to commercially produce our products, we will need to comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and guidelines. We may encounter difficulties in achieving quality control and quality assurance and may experience shortages in qualified personnel. We are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to follow cGMP or other regulatory requirements or delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill- finish, packaging, or storage of our TCR therapeutic candidates as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to comply with regulatory requirements or pass any regulatory authority inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates, including leading to significant delays in the availability of our TCR therapeutic candidates for our clinical trials or the termination of or suspension of a clinical trial, or the delay or prevention of a filing or approval of marketing applications for our TCR therapeutic candidates. Significant non-compliance could also result in the imposition of sanctions, including warning or untitled letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approvals for our TCR therapeutic candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could damage our reputation and our business. 11 Table of Contents The outcome of clinical trials is uncertain and our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of any of our TCR therapeutic candidates which would prevent or delay regulatory approval and commercialization. There is a risk in any clinical trial (whether sponsored by us or investigator-initiated) that side effects from our TCR therapeutic candidates will require a hold on, or termination of, our clinical programs or further adjustments to our clinical programs in order to progress our TCR therapeutic candidate. Our TCR therapeutic candidates are novel and unproven and regulators will therefore require evidence that the TCR therapeutic candidates are safe before permitting clinical trials to commence and evidence that the TCR therapeutic candidates are safe and effective before granting any regulatory approval. In particular, because our TCR therapeutic candidates are subject to regulation as biological products, we will need to demonstrate that they are safe, pure and potent for use in each target indication. The TCR therapeutic candidate must demonstrate an acceptable risk versus benefit profile in its intended patient population and for its intended use. The risk/benefit profile required for product licensure will vary depending on these factors and may include not only the ability to show tumor shrinkage, but also adequate duration of response, a delay in the progression of the disease and/or an improvement in survival. For example, response rates from the use of our TCR therapeutic candidates will not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval unless we can also show an adequate duration of response. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. Success in preclinical programs and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Moreover, the results of preclinical programs and early clinical trials of our TCR therapeutic candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. To date, we have only obtained interim results from Phase 1/2 clinical trials that are uncontrolled, involve small sample sizes and are of shorter duration than would be required for regulatory approval. There may be other reasons why our early clinical trials are not predictive of later clinical trials. In addition, the results of trials in one set of patients or line of treatment may not be predictive of those obtained in another and protocols may need to be revised based on unexpected early results. For example, in our ovarian cancer trial with our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, the first patient treated experienced a grade 3 Cytokine-Release Syndrome at day seven post-infusion, concomitant with a significant proliferation of the engineered T cells that constituted about 100% of the peripheral blood at day 14. This level of Cytokine-Release Syndrome had not been seen in previous results from trials using our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate. The patient’s tumor markers were also falling during this time. To manage the Cytokine-Release Syndrome, the patient was treated with high dose steroids that abrogated the engineered T-cell function. The protocol was then modified to allow for use of the anti-IL6R antibody, tocilizumab, for treatment of Cytokine-Release Syndrome in future patients, which has been shown to control Cytokine-Release Syndrome without abrogating the anti-tumor response. As another example, in the European investigator-initiated clinical program in gastro-esophageal cancer there has been one patient death. The underlying cause of death is under investigation. We expect there may be greater variability in results for our TCR therapeutic candidates which are administered on a patient-by-patient basis than for “off-the-shelf” products, like many other biologics. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of TCR therapeutic candidates proceeding through clinical trials. TCR therapeutic candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy profile despite having progressed through preclinical programs and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or unacceptable safety issues, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Most biologic candidates that begin clinical trials are never approved by regulatory authorities for commercialization. We cannot therefore guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the required efficacy and safety profile from the performance of any of our clinical programs. In addition, even if such trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do. Accordingly, more trials may be required before we can submit our TCR therapeutic candidate for regulatory approval. To the extent that the results of the trials are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, we may be required to expend significant resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We cannot predict whether any of our TCR therapeutic candidates will satisfy regulatory requirements at all or for indications in which such TCR therapeutic candidates are currently being evaluated as part of any clinical programs. 12 Table of Contents We have limited experience conducting clinical trials which may cause a delay in any clinical program and in the obtaining of regulatory approvals. Although we have recruited a team that has significant experience with clinical trials, as a company we have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and no experience in conducting clinical trials through to regulatory approval of any TCR therapeutic candidate. In part because of this lack of experience, we cannot be certain that planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Large-scale trials would require significant additional financial and management resources, and reliance on third-party clinical investigators, contract research organizations, or CROs, or consultants. Relying on third-party clinical investigators, consultants or CROs may force us to encounter delays that are outside of our control. Our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate is being used in investigator-initiated clinical programs in gastro esophageal cancer patients. We are not sponsoring these clinical programs and have limited control over clinical decisions taken in such clinical programs including the methodology of patient treatment, timescales of treatment or when additional sites may be initiated and start enrolling patients. Our TCR therapeutic candidates may have undesirable side effects or have other properties that could halt their clinical development, prevent their regulatory approval, limit their commercial potential or otherwise result in significant negative consequences. Where any TCR therapeutic candidate has undesirable side effects, regulatory approval for such therapeutic may be delayed or suspended, or alternatively may be restricted to particular disease indications or states that are more limited than desirable. This could result in the failure of our products reaching the market or a reduction in the patient population for which any TCR therapeutic candidate can be used. Events that have been reported in more than 15% of patients and considered at least possibly related to our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate include diarrhea, rash, fever, fatigue, disturbed liver function tests, low neutrophil or lymphocyte count, nausea and anemia. Several events in our U.S. clinical trials have been classified as serious adverse events. Related serious adverse events seen in our sponsored clinical programs and occurring in more than one patient include neutropenia, pyrexia, Cytokine-Release Syndrome, Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) and dehydration. GVHD impacting the skin and gastrointestinal tract, has only been reported in our myeloma transplant study involving auto-SCT. To date, we have also seen a suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction of grade 4 supraventricular tachycardia, or SVT, in one patient and grade 4 respiratory failure and grade 4 febrile neutropenia in a second patient in our sponsored trials. Any unacceptable toxicities arising in ongoing clinical programs could result in suspension or termination of those clinical programs. Any suspension or termination will affect other TCR therapeutic candidates and thereby impact our ability to recognize any product revenues. Any side effects may also result in the need to perform additional trials, which will delay regulatory approval for such TCR therapeutic candidate, if at all, and require additional resources and financial investment to bring the relevant TCR therapeutic candidate to market. In addition, the impact of TCR therapeutic candidates may vary from patient to patient and this may affect the number of patients who can be successfully treated with our TCR therapeutic candidates. Depending on the nature of the indication, certain patients may need to be excluded from treatment, which could also impact our ability to recruit patients to utilize such therapies or to recruit patients to conduct clinical trials in general for our TCR therapeutic candidates. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and difficult to implement. Clinical trials, depending on the stage, can be costly as well as difficult to implement and define, particularly with technologies that are not tried and tested, such as our TCR therapeutic candidates. These factors can lead to a longer clinical development timeline and regulatory approval process, including a requirement to conduct further or more complex clinical trials in order to obtain regulatory approval. Regulatory authorities may disagree with the design of any clinical program, and designing an acceptable program could lead to increased timeframes for obtaining of approvals, if any. In addition, progression of clinical trials depends the on ability to recruit suitable patients to those trials and delay in recruiting will impact the timeframes of such clinical trials and as a result the timeframes for obtaining regulatory approval, if any, for the relevant TCR therapeutic candidates. 13 Table of Contents In particular, eligible patients must be screened for the target peptide and HLA type, which may reduce the number of patients who can be recruited for any clinical program. The ability to administer our TCR therapeutic candidates to patients in accordance with set protocols for the clinical trials and the results obtained depends on patient participation for the duration of the clinical trial, which many of these patients are unable to do because of their late-stage cancer and low or limited life expectancy. Although the initial results in our clinical trials to date may suggest a promising tolerability profile, these results may not be indicative of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials. Long-term follow-up of patients from earlier trials may also result in detection of additional side effects or identification of other safety issues. There is no guarantee of success in any clinical trial and there is a very high attrition rate for pharmaceutical or biological compounds entering clinical trials. Any side effects or negative safety issues identified at any stage of clinical development will require additional investigation and assessment which can result in additional costs and resource requirements that could delay or potentially terminate our clinical trials. We may face difficulty in enrolling patients in our clinical trials. We may find it difficult to enroll patients in our clinical trials. For example, in our Phase 1/2 melanoma trial with our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, there was a delay in enrollment as a result of competition from other emerging therapies. Identifying and qualifying patients, including testing of patients for appropriate target peptides or HLA type, to participate in clinical trials of our TCR therapeutic candidates are critical to our success. The timing of our clinical trials depends on the speed at which we can recruit patients to participate in testing our TCR therapeutic candidates. If patients are unwilling to participate in our trials because of negative publicity from adverse events or for other reasons, including competitive clinical trials for similar patient populations, the timeline for recruiting patients, conducting trials and obtaining regulatory approval of potential products may be delayed or prevented. These delays could result in increased costs, delays in advancing our product development, delays in testing the effectiveness of our technology or termination of the clinical trials altogether. We may not be able to identify, recruit and enroll a sufficient number of patients, or those with required or desired characteristics to achieve sufficient diversity in a given trial in order to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: · eligibility criteria for the trial in question, in particular, presenting the correct HLA type and target antigen; · severity of the disease under investigation; · design of the trial protocol; · size of the patient population; · perceived risks and benefits of the TCR therapeutic candidate under trial; · novelty of the TCR therapeutic candidate and acceptance by oncologists; · proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients; · availability of competing therapies and clinical trials; · efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; · patient referral practices of physicians; and · ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay, limit or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, any of which would have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Our TCR therapeutic candidates for which we intend to seek approval as biologic products may face competition sooner than anticipated. The enactment of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, created an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products. The abbreviated regulatory pathway establishes legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilar biologics, including the possible designation of a biosimilar as “interchangeable” based on its similarity to an existing reference product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the original branded product is approved under a BLA. On March 6, 2015, the FDA approved the first biosimilar product under the BPCIA. However, the law is complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA and as a result, its ultimate impact, implementation and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement BPCIA may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products. We believe that if our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate is approved as a biological product under a BLA it should qualify for the 12-year period of exclusivity. However, there is a risk that the FDA will not consider our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate or any additional TCR therapeutic candidates to be reference products for competing products, potentially creating the opportunity for generic competition sooner than anticipated. Additionally, this period of regulatory exclusivity does not apply to companies pursuing regulatory approval via their own traditional BLA, rather than via the abbreviated pathway. Moreover, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing. Foreign countries also have abbreviated regulatory pathways for biosimilars and hence even where the FDA does not approve a biosimilar biologic, a biosimilar could be approved using an abbreviated regulatory pathway in other markets where our TCR therapeutic candidates are approved and marketed. Risks Related to Government Regulation The FDA regulatory approval process is lengthy and time- consuming, and we may experience significant delays in the clinical development and regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We have not previously submitted a BLA to the FDA, or similar approval submissions to comparable foreign authorities. A BLA must include extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the TCR therapeutic candidate’s safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. The BLA must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. We expect the novel nature of our TCR therapeutic candidates to create additional challenges in obtaining regulatory approval, if at all. For example, the FDA has limited experience with commercial development of T-cell therapies for cancer. Accordingly, the regulatory approval pathway for our TCR therapeutic candidates may be uncertain, complex, expensive and lengthy, and approval may not be obtained. We could also encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our TCR therapeutic candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the sponsor of an investigator-initiated trial, the Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, for the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the Data Monitoring Committee for such trial, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a TCR therapeutic candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of our TCR therapeutic candidates, the commercial prospects for our TCR therapeutic candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenue. 15 Table of Contents GSK may also experience similar difficulties in conducting future clinical trials of licensed TCR therapeutic candidates. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates. The FDA regulatory process can be difficult to predict, in particular whether for example accelerated approval processes are available or further unanticipated clinical trials are required will depend on the data obtained in our ongoing clinical trials. The regulatory approval process and the amount of time it takes us to obtain regulatory approvals for our TCR therapeutic candidates will depend on the data that are obtained in our ongoing clinical trials and in one or more future registrational or pivotal clinical trials. We may attempt to seek approval on a per indication basis for our TCR therapeutic candidates on the basis of a single pivotal trial. While the FDA requires in most cases two adequate and well-controlled pivotal clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of a product candidate, a single pivotal trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the trial is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible. Depending on the data we obtain, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require additional clinical trials to be carried out or further patients to be treated prior to the granting of any regulatory approval for marketing of our TCR therapeutic candidates. It is difficult for us to predict with such a novel technology exactly what will be required by the regulatory authorities in order to take our TCR therapeutic candidates to market or the timeframes under which the relevant regulatory approvals can be obtained. In addition, depending on the data that are obtained by us in our current and future clinical trials, we may seek breakthrough therapy or fast track designation or accelerated approval from the FDA for our TCR therapeutic candidates and equivalent accelerated approval procedures in other countries. However, given the novel nature of our TCR therapeutic candidates, it is difficult for us to predict or guarantee whether the FDA or other regulatory authorities will approve such requests or what further clinical or other data may be required to support an application for such accelerated approval procedures. The process of obtaining marketing approvals, both in the United States and abroad, is expensive, may take many years if additional clinical trials are required, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the TCR therapeutic candidates involved. Changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities also have substantial discretion in the drug and biologics approval process. The number and types of preclinical programs and clinical trials that will be required for regulatory approval varies depending on the TCR therapeutic candidate, the disease or condition that the TCR therapeutic candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular TCR therapeutic candidate. Approval policies, regulations or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a TCR therapeutic candidate’s clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions, and there may be varying interpretations of data obtained from preclinical programs or clinical trials, either of which may cause delays or limitations in the approval or the decision not to approve an application. In addition, approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates could be delayed or refused for many reasons, including the following: · the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials; · we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that our TCR therapeutic candidates are safe and effective for any of their proposed indications; · the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; · we may be unable to demonstrate that our TCR therapeutic candidates’ clinical and other benefits outweigh their safety risks; · the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical programs or clinical trials; 16 Table of Contents · the data collected from clinical trials of our TCR therapeutic candidates may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of a BLA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; · our manufacturing processes or facilities or those of the third-party manufacturers with which we may not be adequate to support approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates; and · the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. It is possible that none of our TCR therapeutic candidates will ever obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize the TCR therapeutics. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, required approvals would materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the particular TCR therapeutic candidate, which would result in significant harm to our business. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates in one jurisdiction does not mean that we will be successful in obtaining regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates in other jurisdictions. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates in one jurisdiction does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval of a TCR therapeutic candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions must also approve the manufacturing, marketing and promotion of the TCR therapeutic candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical programs or clinical trials as clinical trials conducted in one jurisdiction may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In many jurisdictions outside the United States, a TCR therapeutic candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that jurisdiction. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our TCR therapeutic candidates is also subject to approval. We may also submit marketing applications in other countries. Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside of the United States have requirements for approval of TCR therapeutic candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those jurisdictions. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our TCR therapeutic candidates in certain countries. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our TCR therapeutic candidates will be harmed. We plan to seek breakthrough therapy or fast track designations and may pursue accelerated approval for some or all of our current TCR therapeutic candidates, but we may be unable to obtain such designations or, obtain or maintain the benefits associated with such designations. We may seek breakthrough therapy or fast track designations for our TCR therapeutic candidates in the United States or equivalent regulations elsewhere in the world. In 2012, the FDA established a breakthrough therapy designation which is intended to expedite the development and review of products that treat serious or life-threatening diseases when “preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development.” The designation of a TCR therapeutic candidate as a breakthrough therapy provides potential benefits that include more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the development plan for the TCR therapeutic candidate and ensure collection of appropriate data needed to support approval; more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about things such as the design of the proposed clinical trials and use of biomarkers; intensive guidance on an efficient drug development program, beginning as early as Phase 1; organizational commitment involving senior managers; and eligibility for rolling review and priority review. Breakthrough therapy designation does not change the standards for product approval. We intend to seek breakthrough therapy designation for some or all of our TCR therapeutic candidates, but there can be no assurance that we will receive breakthrough therapy designation. Additionally, other treatments from competing companies may obtain the designations and impact our ability to develop and commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operation. 17 Table of Contents We may also seek fast track designation. If a drug or biologic candidate is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition or disease and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition, the sponsor may apply for fast track designation. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new drug or biologic candidate may request that the FDA designate the candidate for a specific indication as a fast track drug or biologic concurrent with, or after, the submission of the IND for the candidate. The FDA must determine if the drug or biologic candidate qualifies for fast track designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor’s request. Even if we do apply for and receive fast track designation, we may not experience a faster development, review or approval process compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw fast track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. We may also seek accelerated approval for products that have obtained fast track designation. Under the FDA’s fast track and accelerated approval programs, the FDA may approve a drug or biologic for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. For drugs granted accelerated approval, post-marketing confirmatory trials have been required to describe the anticipated effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit. These confirmatory trials must be completed with due diligence. Moreover, the FDA may withdraw approval of our TCR therapeutic candidate or indication approved under the accelerated approval pathway if, for example: · the trial or trials required to verify the predicted clinical benefit of our TCR therapeutic candidate fail to verify such benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug; · other evidence demonstrates that our TCR therapeutic candidate is not shown to be safe or effective under the conditions of use; · we fail to conduct any required post approval trial of our TCR therapeutic candidate with due diligence; or · we disseminate false or misleading promotional materials relating to the relevant TCR therapeutic candidate. Even if we receive regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense as well as significant penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our TCR therapeutic candidates. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our TCR therapeutic candidates will require surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the TCR therapeutic candidate. The FDA may also require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy in order to approve our TCR therapeutic candidates, which could entail requirements for a medication guide, physician communication plans or additional elements to ensure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves our TCR therapeutic candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping for our TCR therapeutic candidates will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs and current good clinical practices, or cGCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to monitor and ensure compliance with cGMPs. We must also comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for any TCR therapeutic candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs, including biologics, are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product’s approved labeling. Thus, we will not be able to promote any TCR therapeutic candidates we develop for indications or uses for which they are not approved. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our TCR therapeutic candidates, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: 18 Table of Contents · restrictions on our ability to conduct clinical trials, including full or partial clinical holds on ongoing or planned trials; · restrictions on such products’ manufacturing processes; · restrictions on the marketing of a product; · restrictions on product distribution; · requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials; · untitled or warning letters; · withdrawal of the products from the market; · refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; · recall of products; · fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · refusal to permit the import or export of our products; · product seizure; · injunctions; · imposition of civil penalties; or · criminal prosecution. The FDA’s and other regulatory authorities’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, if following a pivotal clinical trial we were able to obtain accelerated approval of our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate, the FDA will require us to conduct a confirmatory trial or trials to verify the predicted clinical benefit and additional safety studies. The results from the confirmatory trial or trials may not support the clinical benefit, which would result in the approval being withdrawn. We may seek a conditional marketing authorization in Europe for some or all of our current TCR therapeutic candidates, but we may not be able to obtain or maintain such designation. As part of its marketing authorization process, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, may grant marketing authorizations for certain categories of medicinal products on the basis of less complete data than is normally required, when doing so may meet unmet medical needs of patients and serve the interest of public health. In such cases, it is possible for the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, to recommend the granting of a marketing authorization, subject to certain specific obligations to be reviewed annually, which is referred to as a conditional marketing authorization. This may apply to medicinal products for human use that fall under the jurisdiction of the EMA, including those that aim at the treatment, the prevention, or the medical diagnosis of seriously debilitating diseases or life-threatening diseases and those designated as orphan medicinal products. 19 Table of Contents A conditional marketing authorization may be granted when the CHMP finds that, although comprehensive clinical data referring to the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product have not been supplied, all the following requirements are met: · the risk-benefit balance of the medicinal product is positive; · it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data; · unmet medical needs will be fulfilled; and · the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The granting of a conditional marketing authorization is restricted to situations in which only the clinical part of the application is not yet fully complete. Incomplete preclinical or quality data may only be accepted if duly justified and only in the case of a product intended to be used in emergency situations in response to public-health threats. Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year, on a renewable basis. The holder will be required to complete ongoing trials or to conduct new trials with a view to confirming that the benefit-risk balance is positive. In addition, specific obligations may be imposed in relation to the collection of pharmacovigilance data. Granting a conditional marketing authorization allows medicines to reach patients with unmet medical needs earlier than might otherwise be the case and will ensure that additional data on a product are generated, submitted, assessed and acted upon. Although we may seek a conditional marketing authorization for one or more of our TCR therapeutic candidates by the EMA, the EMA or CHMP may ultimately not agree that the requirements for such conditional marketing authorization have been satisfied and hence delay the commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our TCR therapeutic candidates. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the United States and Europe, may designate drugs or biologics for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the EMA or the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug for that time period. The applicable period is seven years in the United States and 10 years in Europe. The European exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation or if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. Orphan drug exclusivity may be lost if the FDA or EMA determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Some of our TCR therapeutic candidates may be eligible for orphan drug designation. In the United States, under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition. Such diseases and conditions are those that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States or, if they affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for these types of diseases or conditions will be recovered from sales of the product. If the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by that agency. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process, but it can lead to financial incentives, such as opportunities for grant funding toward clinical trial costs, tax advantages in-lieu of R&D tax credits and user-fee waivers. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity generally prevents the FDA from approving another application, including a full BLA, to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, including if the FDA concludes that the later drug is clinically superior to the approved drug. 20 Table of Contents A drug is clinically superior if it is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. There can be no assurance that any TCR therapeutic candidate will be eligible for orphan drug designation in the United States or in other jurisdictions or that it will obtain orphan drug marketing exclusivity upon approval. Inability to obtain orphan drug designation for a specific TCR therapeutic candidate in the future would prevent us from taking advantage of the financial benefits associated with orphan drug designation and would preclude us from obtaining marketing exclusivity upon approval, if any. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve another drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is clinically superior in that it is shown to be safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. The production of our TCR therapeutic candidates is highly regulated and subject to constant inspection. The regulatory environment may also change from time to time. Any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, whether in the United States or in other countries in which our TCR therapeutic candidates are supplied, may result in investigation by regulatory authorities, suspension of regulatory authorizations and, as a result, suspension of clinical programs or ability to supply any of our TCR therapeutic candidates and potentially significant fines or other penalties being imposed in relation to any breach. Any failure may also harm our reputation and impact our ability going forward to obtain regulatory approvals for other TCR therapeutic candidates or require us to undertake additional organizational changes to minimize the risk of further breach. Our research and development activities utilize hazardous, radioactive and biological materials. Should such materials cause injury or be used other than in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be liable for damages. We use radioactive, hazardous and biological reagents and materials in our research and development at our U.K. site. We have obtained the appropriate certification required for the use of these reagents but our use is subject to compliance with applicable laws and there is a risk that should any third party or employee suffer injury or damage from radioactive, hazardous or biological reagents that we may incur liability or obligations to compensate such third parties or employees. We have employers liability insurance capped at £10.0 million per occurrence and public liability insurance capped at £3.0 million per occurrence, however, these amounts may be insufficient to compensate us if these events actually occur in the future. We are subject to the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The Bribery Act, the FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. Under the Bribery Act, we may also be liable for failing to prevent a person associated with us from committing a bribery offense. We and our commercial partners operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential Bribery Act or FCPA violations, and we participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions, if non-compliant, could potentially subject us to liability under the Bribery Act, FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States, and authorities in the European Union, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, anti-money laundering laws, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws. 21 Table of Contents However, there is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Bribery Act, the FCPA or other legal requirements, including Trade Control laws. If we are not in compliance with the Bribery Act, the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the Bribery Act, the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by U.K., U.S. or other authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are found in violation of federal or state “fraud and abuse” or other health care laws, we may be required to pay a penalty and/or be suspended from participation in federal or state health care programs, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. After we obtain marketing approval for our products in the United States, if any, we will be subject to various federal and state health care “fraud and abuse” and other health care laws. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and use of pharmaceutical products that are granted marketing approval. Accordingly, arrangements with third-party payors, existing or potential customers and referral sources are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, and these laws and regulations may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which manufacturers market, sell and distribute the products for which they obtain marketing approval. Such restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following: · the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or kind, in exchange for, or to induce, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Cases have been brought under false claims laws alleging that off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products or the provision of kickbacks has resulted in the submission of false claims to governmental health care programs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, amended the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. Under federal government regulations, some arrangements, known as safe harbors, are deemed not to violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and analogous state law requirements; · the federal False Claims Act or FCA, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute violations and certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, also may implicate the FCA. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions on behalf of the government under the federal False Claims Act and under the false claims laws of several states; · federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; · the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and other healthcare providers and their immediate family members. The CMS publishes the reported data in a searchable form on an annual basis; 22 Table of Contents · The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; · HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; and · state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to: items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance issued by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. California and a few other states have passed laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and/or the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. In addition, several states impose other marketing restrictions or require pharmaceutical companies to make marketing or price disclosures to the state. There are ambiguities as to what is required to comply with these state requirements and if we fail to comply with an applicable state law requirement we could be subject to penalties. Neither the government nor the courts have provided definitive guidance on the application of fraud and abuse laws to our business. Law enforcement authorities are increasingly focused on enforcing these laws. Although we seek to structure our business arrangements in compliance with all applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how the law will be applied in specific circumstances. Accordingly, and it is possible that, once we begin marketing our product(s) some of our practices may be challenged under these laws. While we intend to structure our business arrangements to comply with these laws, it is possible that the government could allege violations of, or convict us of violating, these laws. Violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental laws and regulations may result in penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment. Furthermore, efforts to ensure that business activities and business arrangements comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations can be costly for manufacturers of branded prescription products. Additionally, if we are found in violation of one or more of these laws our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our current cash projections include reliance on the ability to obtain certain tax credits and the operation of certain tax regimes with in the United Kingdom. Should these cease to be available, this could impact our ongoing requirement for investment and the timeframes within which additional investment is required. As a company that carries out extensive research and development activities, we benefit from the U.K. research and development tax credit regime for small and medium sized companies, whereby our principal research subsidiary company, Adaptimmune Limited, is able to surrender the trading losses that arise from its research and development activities for a payable tax credit of up to 33.4% of eligible research and development expenditures. Qualifying expenditures largely comprise employment costs for research staff, consumables and certain internal overhead costs incurred as part of research projects. Subcontracted research expenditures are eligible for a cash rebate of up to 21.7%. The majority of our pipeline research, clinical trials management and manufacturing development activities, all of which are being carried out by Adaptimmune Limited, are eligible for inclusion within these tax credit cash rebate claims. We may not be able to continue to claim research and development tax credits (R&D tax credits) in the future as we increase our personnel and expand our business because we may no longer qualify as an SME (small or medium-sized enterprise). In order to qualify as an SME for R&D tax credits, we must continue to be a company with fewer than 500 employees and also have either an annual turnover not exceeding €100 million or a balance sheet not exceeding €86 million. 23 Table of Contents We may also benefit in the future from the United Kingdom’s “patent box” regime, which would allow certain profits attributable to revenues from patented products to be taxed at a rate that over time will be reduced to 10%. As we have many different patents covering our products, future upfront fees, milestone fees, product revenues, and royalties could be taxed at this favorably low tax rate. When taken in combination with the enhanced relief available on our research and development expenditures, we expect a long-term lower rate of corporation tax to apply to us. If, however, there are unexpected adverse changes to the United Kingdom research and development tax credit regime or the “patent box” regime, or we are unable to qualify for such advantageous tax legislation, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our TCR Therapeutic Candidates The market opportunities for our TCR therapeutic candidates may be limited to those patients who have failed prior treatments. Initial approval of new cancer therapies may be limited to what is referred to as third-line use. Third-line treatment is the third type of treatment following initial, or first-line, treatment and second-line treatment, which is given when first-line treatment does not work or ceases working. However, cancer therapies may be used from the point at which cancer is detected in its early stages (first line) onward. Whenever the first-line therapy fails or the process is unsuccessful, second-line therapy may be administered, such as additional rounds of chemotherapy, radiation and antibody drugs or a combination of these treatments. If second-line therapies fail, patients are generally given the opportunity to receive third-line therapies, which tend to be more novel therapies. Our current clinical trials generally require that patients have received chemotherapy prior to enrollment. Depending upon the outcome of our current trials, we may conduct future clinical trials using our TCR therapeutic candidates for first-line therapy, but there can be no guarantee that clinical trials will be approved or that if approved such trials will lead to regulatory approval. If our TCR therapeutic candidates only receive third-line or second-line approval, the patient population to which we can supply our TCR therapeutic candidates will be significantly reduced, which may limit our commercial opportunities. Our estimates of the patient population that may be treated by our TCR therapeutic candidates is based on published information. This information may not be accurate in relation to our TCR therapeutic candidates and our estimates of potential patient populations could therefore be much higher than those that are actually available or possible for commercialization. In addition, these estimates are based on assumptions about the number of eligible patients which have the peptide and HLA type targeted by our TCR therapeutic candidates. Different patient populations will present different peptides according to their specific HLA type. HLA types vary across the patient population and, due to this variability, any therapy will initially only be suitable for treatment of patients expressing the particular HLA type presenting the relevant peptide. For example, approximately 50% of the U.S. Caucasian population expresses HLA A2, which contains the peptide used in our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate program. Our current TCR therapeutic candidates have been developed for patients with HLA A2 which may reduce the size of the patient population that can be treated unless we develop and receive regulatory approval for TCR therapeutic candidates approved for additional HLA peptides. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our TCR therapeutic candidates, we may not be able to generate product revenue. As an organization, we have never marketed or supplied commercial pharmaceutical or biologic products or therapies. We do not currently have a dedicated sales force and will need to grow and develop the sales function and associated support network if we are to supply TCR therapeutic candidates on a commercial basis. As our TCR therapeutic candidates proceed through clinical programs, we intend to develop an in-house marketing organization and sales force, which will require significant capital expenditures, management resources, and time. We will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train, and retain marketing and sales personnel. This process may result in additional delays in bringing our TCR product candidate to market or in certain cases require us to enter into alliances with third parties in order to do so. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or even if we are able to do so, that they will result in effective sales forces. Any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful. We may have little or no control over the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties, and our revenue from TCR therapeutic candidate sales may be lower than if we had commercialized our TCR therapeutic candidates ourselves. We also face significant competition in our search for third parties to assist us with the sales and marketing efforts of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Such competition may also result in delay or inability to supply TCR therapeutic candidates to particular countries or territories in the world which in turn will restrict the revenue that can be obtained from any TCR therapeutic candidate. Any inability on our part to develop in-house sales and commercial distribution capabilities or to establish and maintain relationships with third-party collaborators that can successfully commercialize any TCR therapeutic candidate in the United States or elsewhere will have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our TCR therapeutic candidates and will face an even greater risk upon any commercialization. For example, we may be sued if any of our TCR therapeutic candidates causes or is perceived to cause injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidate. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources and, regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our TCR therapeutic candidates; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · initiation of investigations by regulators; · costs to defend the related litigation; · a diversion of management’s time and our resources; · substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; · product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; · loss of revenue; · exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; · the inability to commercialize TCR therapeutic candidate; and · a decline in our share price. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable price to protect against potential product liability claims could also prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates. We currently hold £15.0 million in clinical trial insurance coverage in the aggregate per year, with a per trial limit of £3.0 million. We also hold products and services liability insurance capped at £3.0 million in the aggregate and public liability insurance capped at £3.0 million per occurrence. These levels may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We may also need to increase our insurance coverage as we expand the scope of our clinical trials and commercialize any of our product TCR therapeutic candidates. In addition, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 25 Table of Contents Even if we obtain regulatory approval of our TCR therapeutic candidates, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, hospitals, cancer treatment centers and others in the medical community. The use of engineered T cells as a potential cancer treatment is a recent development and may not become broadly accepted by physicians, patients, hospitals, cancer treatment centers and others in the medical community. Additional factors will influence whether our TCR therapeutic candidates are accepted in the market, including: · the clinical indications for which our TCR therapeutic candidates are approved; · physicians, hospitals, cancer treatment centers and patients considering our TCR therapeutic candidates as a safe and effective treatment; · the potential and perceived advantages of our TCR therapeutic candidates over alternative treatments; · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · product labeling or prescribing information requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities; · limitations or warnings contained in the labeling approved by the FDA; · the timing of market introduction of our TCR therapeutic candidates as well as competitive products; · the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; · the availability of coverage, adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities; · the willingness of patients to pay for our TCR therapeutic candidate on an out-of-pocket basis in the absence of coverage by third-party payors and government authorities; · relative convenience and ease of administration as compared to alternative treatments and competitive therapies; and · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, although we are not utilizing embryonic stem cells or replication competent vectors, adverse publicity due to the ethical and social controversies surrounding the therapeutic use of such technologies, and reported side effects from any clinical trials using these technologies or the failure of such trials to demonstrate that these therapies are safe and effective may limit market acceptance of our TCR therapeutic candidates. If our TCR therapeutic candidates are approved but fail to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, hospitals, cancer treatment centers or others in the medical community, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. Even if our TCR therapeutic candidates achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our TCR therapeutic candidates, are more cost effective or render our TCR therapeutic candidates obsolete. Coverage and reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for our TCR therapeutic candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our TCR therapeutic candidates profitably. Successful sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates, if approved, depend on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. In addition, because our TCR therapeutic candidates represent new approaches to the treatment of cancer, we cannot accurately estimate the potential revenue from our TCR therapeutic candidates. 26 Table of Contents Patients who are provided medical treatment for their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their treatment. Obtaining coverage and adequate reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors is critical to new product acceptance. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs and treatments they will cover and the amount of reimbursement. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · a covered benefit under its health plan; · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval of a TCR therapeutic candidate from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process which likely could require us to provide to the payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products. Even if we obtain coverage for a given TCR therapeutic candidate, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate for us to achieve or sustain profitability or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our TCR therapeutic candidates unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our TCR therapeutic candidates. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for products exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for products can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our TCR therapeutic candidates to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. We intend to seek approval to market our TCR therapeutic candidates in both the United States and in selected jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions for our TCR therapeutic candidates, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions. In some foreign countries, particularly those in the EU, the pricing of biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after obtaining marketing approval of a TCR therapeutic candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of our TCR therapeutic candidates will depend significantly on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for our TCR therapeutic candidates and may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures. Third-party payors, whether domestic or foreign, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the recently enacted U.S. Healthcare Reform Act and its implementing regulations, among other things, revised the methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers to the state and federal government for covered outpatient drugs and certain biologics, including our TCR therapeutic candidates, under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, subjected manufacturers to new annual fees and taxes for certain branded prescription drugs, and provided incentives to programs that increase the federal government’s comparative effectiveness research. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Healthcare Reform Act was enacted. In August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. 27 Table of Contents This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to two percent per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will remain in effect until 2024, unless additional congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the foreign, federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare and/or impose price controls may adversely affect: · the demand for our TCR therapeutic candidates, if we obtain regulatory approval; · our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our TCR therapeutic candidates; · our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability; · the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and · the availability of capital. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors, which may adversely affect our future profitability. Risks Related to Our Reliance Upon Third Parties We rely heavily on GSK for our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate clinical program, which may also affect other TCR therapeutic candidates. Our ability to commercialize our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate and our other TCR therapeutic candidates depends heavily on the ongoing collaboration with GSK and payments made by GSK to us upon achievement of specified milestones. GSK has the right to nominate four target programs in addition to the NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate program under the collaboration arrangements. We have no control over whether GSK will elect to progress additional targets under the collaboration arrangements and therefore trigger additional investment from GSK in our TCR therapeutic candidates. If GSK does not elect to do so, we may require additional capital or investment or need to enter into alternative strategic alliances. In addition, GSK has a right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement or any specific license under the collaboration and license agreement for any reason on provision of sixty days’ notice. Termination may impact not only our requirement for additional investment or capital but also the timeframes within which current clinical programs can be performed and the development of a suitable commercial-scale manufacturing process for any of our TCR therapeutic candidates. In addition, GSK has an option to obtain an exclusive worldwide license to our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate program, which is exercisable during specified time periods. If the option is exercised, GSK will assume full responsibility for our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate program. The current development plan or any future development plan agreed upon between GSK and us may be unsuccessful or fail to result in candidate therapies that are feasible for further development or commercialization. There is therefore no guarantee that any payments due on commercialization of products under the agreement between GSK and us will be due or payable by GSK at any time or on the timeframes currently expected. In addition, milestone payments may not be paid where any development plan is terminated prior to completion for lack of feasibility or lack of identification of any suitable candidates that meet the required criteria for progression to the next stage of development. In addition, the development plan agreed upon with GSK and any future development plans will be subject to change as a result of risks inherent with the development of any pharmaceutical, biological or gene therapy product. Changes to the development plan may impact the timing and extent of milestone payments made by GSK to us. GSK has the ability to influence or control certain decisions relating to the development of therapies covered by our collaboration and license agreement with GSK. This ability could result in delays to the clinical programs covered by the collaboration or changes to the scope of those clinical programs, including the disease indications relevant to such clinical programs. Under the agreement, we are also prohibited from independently developing or commercializing therapies directed at the targets subject to outstanding options granted to GSK. In addition, GSK may have competing internal or commercial interests including its independent collaboration with Immunocore Limited, or Immunocore, any of which could impact our collaboration or the ability of GSK to take any clinical programs forward to the next stage following the exercise of their option. 28 Table of Contents GSK and Novartis have publicly announced that Novartis has opt-in rights over GSK’s current and future oncology research and development pipeline. As part of that announced transaction, GSK has sold the rights to GSK’s marketed oncology portfolio, related R&D activities and the AKT Inhibitors currently in development. GSK has also agreed to grant Novartis preferred partner rights for co-development and commercialization of GSK’s current and future oncology pipeline products for a period of 12.5 years from completion of the applicable transactions between GSK and Novartis. The relevant agreement grants Novartis a right of first negotiation over the co-development or commercialisation of any GSK “Relevant Development Product” in a major market. A “Relevant Development Product” as defined in the public announcement is a product in development for the treatment, palliation, diagnosis or prevention of all cancers, including immunology, epigenetics and treatment of solid or hematologic tumors (excluding in all cases, vaccines). The right of first negotiation also lasts for 12.5 years from completion of the applicable transactions between GSK and Novartis and according to the public announcement applies where GSK decides to seek a third party partner for co-development or commercialization of, or to whom to divest rights to, a Relevant Development Product in a global or major market or where GSK proposes to seek a marketing authorization for a Relevant Development Product in a major market. The existence of these opt-in rights could impact GSK’s decision whether to exercise any option under our collaboration or the ability of GSK to take any clinical programs forward to the next stage, following the exercise of its option. The relationship with GSK could also result in disputes arising between us and GSK which could result in costly arbitration or litigation and could impact the ongoing clinical programs or progress of such clinical programs. All intellectual property rights arising from the performance of the collaboration and license agreement will be jointly owned apart from intellectual property rights that we solely create. Both GSK and we have freedom to use jointly owned intellectual property rights. Further development of our TCR therapeutic candidates is also dependent on the work currently planned to be carried out under the agreement with GSK and any delay in such work or termination by GSK of any development program or agreement, may result in substantial delays in the development of our TCR therapeutic candidates and ability to bring our TCR therapeutic candidates to market. Such termination or delays may also result in the need for further investment to replace revenue expected to be earned under the GSK collaboration and license agreement. The GSK collaboration programs relate to specific TCR therapeutic candidates directed to nominated targets. Should any of these programs not be successful or resulting clinical programs show a lack of efficacy or problems with safety, tolerability or durability of response, GSK may decide not to proceed further with such collaboration programs and our ability to obtain other partners for further development of such candidates or of new TCR therapeutic candidates could be significantly compromised. We rely heavily on Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., or ThermoFisher, and the technology that we license from them. The ability to use the ThermoFisher Dynabeads® CD3/CD28 technology to isolate, activate and expand T cells is important to our ongoing ability to offer TCR therapeutic candidates. In December 2012, we entered into a series of license and sub-license agreements with Life Technologies Corporation (now part of ThermoFisher) . These agreements provide us with a field-based exclusive license under certain intellectual property rights owned or controlled by ThermoFisher in relation to the methods of use of the ThermoFisher Dynabeads® CD3/CD28 technology to isolate, activate and expand T-cells and enable transfection of the T-cells with any TCR genes to manufacture our TCR products and use and sell those TCR products to treat cancer, infectious disease and/or autoimmune disease. We also have a field-based exclusive sub-license under certain other patents which cover the method of use of the Dynabeads® CD3/CD28 and are controlled by ThermoFisher under a head-license from the University of Michigan, the United States Navy and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. 29 Table of Contents We have a research supply agreement for the Dynabeads® CD3/CD28 CTS, which currently runs for a period of three years beginning June 2013. We are in the process of negotiating a new supply agreement; however there is no certainty that a re-negotiation will be possible on commercially acceptable terms, which could impact the supply of TCR therapeutic candidates for clinical trials and require us to obtain an alternative source of these beads, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all, and may be subject to the requirement for additional regulatory approval. ThermoFisher has the right to terminate the above described agreements for material breach or insolvency. If ThermoFisher terminates the exclusive license, sub-license and supply agreements or otherwise refuses to supply the Dynabeads® product, we will have to seek an alternative source of the beads or develop an alternative process methodology to enable supply of our TCR therapeutic candidates. An alternative source may be difficult to find or more expensive, which may delay timeframes either for clinical programs or ultimately commercial supply of our TCR therapeutic candidates. A requirement to identify an alternative source may also require a change in our regulatory application or additional regulatory testing to ensure that any alternative source is comparable and does not present any additional risk which could also result in our program experiencing delays and increased costs. The sub-license agreement, in addition to having the same relevant exclusivity scope and field-based restrictions and many of the terms being equivalent to those set out in the main license agreement with ThermoFisher, also includes additional requirements that any manufacture of engineered TCR products for sale in the United States must occur in the United States and reserves rights for the United States government to use the technology in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 200 et seq. and for the University of Michigan and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute to use the technology for non-commercial research purposes. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our TCR therapeutic candidates, and we may have to rely on third parties to produce and process our TCR therapeutic candidates, if approved. We currently rely on outside contract manufacturing organizations (“CMOs”) to manufacture, supply and process our TCR therapeutic candidates. If one or more of these CMOs become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our engineered TCR therapeutic candidates in the future, we may be forced to find an alternative third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to identify a suitable alternative manufacturer could impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for clinical trial product supplies, and if we are unable to develop our own commercial manufacturing facility for any commercial product supplies, we will be exposed to the following risks: · We may be unable to contract with manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA, EMA and other comparable foreign regulators must approve any replacement manufacturer, which would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, and develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our TCR therapeutic candidates after receipt of any applicable regulatory approval. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to timely formulate and manufacture our TCR therapeutic candidates or produce the quantity and quality required to meet our clinical trial and commercial needs, if any. · Contract manufacturers may not be able to execute our manufacturing procedures appropriately. · Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our TCR therapeutic candidates. · Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, EMA, and other comparable foreign regulators and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Although we do not have day-to-day control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, we are responsible for ensuring compliance with such regulations and standards. 30 Table of Contents · We may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to any improvements made by our third-party manufacturers in the manufacturing process for our TCR therapeutic candidates. · Our third-party manufacturers could breach or terminate their agreement with us. Our contract manufacturers are also subject to the same risks we face in developing our own manufacturing capabilities, as described above. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our TCR therapeutic candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our TCR therapeutic candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. We have insurance to cover certain costs and expenses related to business interruption, which is capped at £3.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, we will rely on third parties to perform release tests on our TCR therapeutic candidates prior to delivery to patients. If these tests are not appropriately performed and test data are not reliable, patients could be put at risk of serious harm. We have a shared development history with Immunocore, and as a result are reliant on resources and other support from Immunocore, which if not present could result in delays in our ability to progress new TCR therapeutic candidates to market. Our TCR technology was originally developed by Avidex, and was subsequently acquired by Medigene in 2006. We were formed as a new, separate company and licensed our TCR technology for T-cell therapy from Medigene in July 2008. Immunocore was subsequently formed as a new separate company and licensed its TCR technology for soluble TCRs from Medigene later in 2008 to develop soluble TCR proteins. Immunocore currently owns approximately 6.35% of the ordinary shares in Adaptimmune. The holders of approximately 36.6% of our ordinary shares also hold shares of Immunocore. These ordinary shareholders and their affiliates own approximately 56.4% of the equity interests in Immunocore, and Immunocore and its shareholders and their affiliates own approximately 43.0 % of the ordinary shares in Adaptimmune. Until March 31, 2014, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, was also the CEO of Immunocore and until July 16, 2015 he was on the board of Immunocore. Two of our directors, Ian Laing and Jonathan Knowles, our chairman, also serve on the board of Immunocore, of which Dr. Knowles is also chairman, and two of our greater than 5% ordinary shareholders, Nicholas Cross and George Robinson, are significant shareholders in, and are directors of, Immunocore. Our scientific co-founder, Bent Jakobsen, is also an employee of Immunocore. Both Adaptimmune and Immunocore focus on technologies that are based on TCR therapies. Each company focuses on distinct applications of, and utilizes different, TCRs. Immunocore uses soluble TCRs whereas Adaptimmune uses cellular TCR therapeutic candidates. Both soluble TCRs and Adaptimmune’s TCR therapeutic candidates rely on the engineering of TCRs to create affinity-enhanced TCRs. In Adaptimmune’s case, once the engineered affinity-enhanced TCR has been generated, the gene encoding that engineered TCR is transduced into patient T cells. With soluble TCRs, there is no transduction. For soluble TCRs, the engineered affinity-enhanced TCRs are combined with an antibody fragment, anti-CD3, and it is this combined TCR/anti- CD3 candidate that is then used to treat patients directly. The combined candidates are called ImmTACs. As a result, the end therapeutic candidates being developed by each company are different in terms of end structure, affinity, require different manufacturing and administration routes and are likely to have different properties in patients. For example, ImmTACs are not anticipated to persist beyond a few hours in a patient following administration, whereas Adaptimmune’s TCR therapeutics have been shown to persist in patients for years; ImmTACs are likely to require higher amounts of target peptide to be present and hence Adaptimmune’s TCR therapeutics may address cancer cells with lower levels of antigen; ImmTACs rely on activating the patient’s existing T cells through an anti-CD3-CD3 interaction, whereas Adaptimune’s TCR therapeutic candidates activate T cells through direct binding to the target peptide and this results in a different mechanism of action being seen in in vitro tests. Notwithstanding the differences between Immunocore’s and Adaptimmune’s end products, there is a risk that both companies could potentially develop products or therapies that target the same peptide and are directly competitive and/or address the same indications and patient populations. For example, both companies could develop therapeutic candidates to the same peptide target and hence have a product addressing the same patient populations in the same way as any other competing technology. In addition, both Immunocore and Adaptimmune have entered into collaboration agreements with GSK, which could decide over time to devote greater time and resources to Immunocore at the expense of Adaptimmune. We have a collaboration agreement with Immunocore regarding target identification and T-cell cloning which provides joint access to all currently identified peptide targets and use of Immunocore employees in conducting such identification. We are in the process of implementing our own T-cell cloning capabilities and plan to implement target identification, but will continue to identify targets jointly with Immunocore through our target collaboration agreement. However, there is a risk that Immunocore could refuse to provide such services on an ongoing basis or alternatively, be unable to provide such services. This may result in delay or termination of our planned research and development activities, which could have a material impact on our ability to develop or bring additional TCR therapeutic candidates to market. In addition, under the terms of the target collaboration agreement, Immunocore may terminate such agreement for any reason with six months notice and it is very unlikely that we could find a suitable replacement and would therefore have to develop these capabilities ourselves, which might take a long time and may delay our planned research and development activities. 31 Table of Contents Under the terms of the target collaboration agreement, we also share a database of identified targets with Immunocore which has resulted from our joint target identification efforts. The contents of this target database are highly confidential and if disclosed to a third party, either as a result of a breach of the confidentiality terms between us and Immunocore or through a change of control in Immunocore, our business could be adversely impacted. If Immunocore is acquired, restructured or otherwise subject to a change of control or otherwise becomes insolvent or lacks liquidity, we could become associated with a third party and the working relationship between the two companies could be compromised. In any of these circumstances, Immunocore may cease cooperating with us or refuse or be unable to provide planned resources which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, many of the patents relating to our underlying core technology in TCR engineering, are co-owned by us and Immunocore pursuant to an assignment and license agreement. Under this agreement, each of Immunocore and Adaptimmune utilize the jointly owned patents and know-how, with Adaptimmune focused on the treatment of patients with engineered TCR therapeutic candidates and Immunocore focused on the treatment of patients with soluble TCRs. Under the agreement, each of Immunocore and Adaptimmune grants the other an exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable license, with the right to sub-license, to certain jointly owned patents and know-how. However, there is the potential that Immunocore could develop a soluble TCR product targeting the same cancer target that one of our TCR therapeutic candidates is targeting, and therefore compete directly with us. We occupy a significant proportion of our corporate headquarters at Milton Park, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom, where we conduct most of our operations, including our in-house research and laboratory facilities, under subleases from Immunocore. These subleases contain rolling mutual break option provisions that could be effective from June 1, 2017 onwards, on service of six months’ prior notice. In September 2015, we entered into an agreement directly with the owner of Milton Park for the construction and lease of a new approximately 67,000 square foot laboratory and office building. We have a transitional services agreement with Immunocore under which Dr. Bent Jakobsen, a scientific co-founder of both Adaptimmune and Immunocore, will continue to devote time to each company. If our relationship with Immunocore deteriorated, whether as a result of a change at that company or due to external events affecting Immunocore, then notwithstanding our additional building scheduled for construction, our relationship with Immunocore as our current landlord and/or our access to Dr. Bent Jakobsen could be adversely affected which could harm our business. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of or commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions, CROs and strategic partners to conduct our preclinical programs and sponsored clinical trials under agreements with us. We expect to have to negotiate budgets and contracts with CROs and trial sites (either directly or through a third party consultant), which may result in delays to our development timelines and increased costs. We rely heavily on these third parties over the course of our clinical trials, and we do not have day-to-day control of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with applicable protocols and legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and these third parties are required to comply with cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for TCR therapeutic candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these third parties fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations and guidelines, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot provide assurances that, upon inspection, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with the cGCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with biologic product produced under cGMPs and will require a large number of subjects. Our failure or any failure by these third parties to comply with these regulations or to support BLA for approval of our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate for the treatment of a sufficient number of patients may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of these third parties violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. 32 Table of Contents Any third parties conducting our clinical trials are not and will not be our employees and, except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such third parties which could be limited, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical trials and preclinical programs. These third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical trials or other drug or biologic development activities, which could affect their performance on our behalf. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to complete development of, obtain regulatory approval of, or successfully commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our TCR therapeutic candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. Switching or adding third parties to conduct our clinical trials involves substantial cost and requires extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new third party commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our timelines for bringing our TCR therapeutic candidates to market, if at all. The Christie NHS Foundation Trust in the United Kingdom sponsors a European investigator-initiated gastro-esophageal cancer study using our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate. Given that we are not the sponsor of this clinical program we cannot control the protocol used in such clinical programs, the procedures used in such clinical programs, the manufacture and supply of the therapy used in the program or the timescales under which such clinical programs are performed. The clinical programs form part of a European Framework grant collaboration program called ATTACK 2 (Adoptive engineered T-cell Targeting to Activate Cancer Killing) which is led by the University of Manchester. Management of the collaboration program is via a consortium of members, including us (the ATTACK Consortium) and we have limited control over decisions taken by the majority of the other ATTACK Consortium members. We cannot guarantee whether the clinical programs will be carried out in accordance with regulatory requirements and performance of these clinical programs could affect our clinical programs including our ability to obtain regulatory approval of, or successfully commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates. We rely on third parties to obtain reagents and raw materials. The manufacture of our TCR therapeutic candidates requires access to a number of reagents and other raw materials from third parties. Such third parties may refuse to supply such reagents or other raw materials or alternatively refuse to supply on commercially reasonable terms. There may also be capacity issues at such third-party suppliers that impact our ability to increase production of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Some of the materials used in the manufacture and processing of our TCR therapeutic candidates may only be supplied by one or a few vendors, which means that, should those vendors be unable to supply, for whatever reason, our ability to manufacture TCR therapeutic candidates and progress TCR therapeutic candidates through clinical trials could be severely impacted and result in additional delays. Such failure to supply could also impact other supply relationships with other third parties and potentially result in additional payments being made or required in relation to such delays. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our TCR therapeutic candidates could be at risk of biosimilar development. Expedited routes or abbreviated procedures for obtaining regulatory approval for products aiming to target the same cancer peptide as our TCR therapeutic candidates may be available to third parties, which we cannot control or prevent. For example, third parties could develop affinity-enhanced TCRs binding to the same targets and regulatory authorities may accept that they are interchangeable with our corresponding TCR therapeutic candidates and, as a result, grant regulatory approval for such competing products. Entry into the market of such competing products may impact the price of our TCR therapeutic candidates and the extent of commercialization possible in relation to such TCR therapeutic candidates. 33 Table of Contents We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, and/or the intellectual property rights of our licensors. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and unauthorized use by competitors, and to protect our trade secrets. In so doing, we may place our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, narrowed in scope or otherwise limited. Further, an adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings may increase the risk of non-issuance of pending applications. In addition, if any licensor fails to enforce or defend its intellectual property rights, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates and to prevent competitors from making, using, and selling competing products. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. The existence and/or outcome of any such litigation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential and proprietary information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology in the marketplace or the cost of doing so may be prohibitive or excessive. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, protect our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection (i.e., know-how), and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property of our TCR therapeutic candidates. The scope and validity of patents in the pharmaceutical field involve complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our TCR therapeutic candidates and technology. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, so our policy is to patent technology in jurisdictions with significant commercial opportunities. However, patent protection may not be available for some of the TCR therapeutic candidates or technology we are developing. If we must spend significant time and money protecting or enforcing our patents, designing around patents held by others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. In addition, patents have a limited lifespan. In most countries, including the United States, the standard expiration of a patent is 20 years from the effective filing date. Various extensions of patent term may be available in particular countries, however in all circumstances the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, has a limited term. If we encounter delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market a product under patent protection could be reduced. We expect to seek extensions of patent terms where these are available in any countries where we are prosecuting patents. Such possible extensions include those permitted under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 in the United States, which permits a patent term extension of up to five years to cover an FDA-approved product. The actual length of the extension will depend on the amount of patent term lost while the product was in clinical trials. However, the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to our patents, or may grant more limited extensions than we request. If this occurs, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our investment in development and clinical trials by referencing our clinical and non-clinical data, and then may be able to launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case. 34 Table of Contents Any loss of, or failure to obtain, patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may be unable to prevent competitors from entering the market with products that are similar to or the same as our TCR therapeutic candidates. Further given that our technology relates to the field of genetic engineering, political pressure or ethical decisions may result in a change to the scope of patent claims for which we may be eligible. Different patent offices throughout the world may adopt different procedures and guidelines in relation to what is and is not patentable and as a result different protection could be obtained in different areas of the world which may impact our ability to maximize commercialization of our technology. We may also incur increased expenses and cost in relation to the filing and prosecution of patent applications where third parties choose to challenge the scope or oppose the grant of any patent application or, following grant, seek to limit or invalidate any patent. On April 13, 2015, we received notification of a third party observation filed against one of the patent applications (PCT/GB2013/053320) jointly owned with Immunocore Limited and covering one aspect of our underlying processes. The third party observation cites a reference which the third party considers to be novelty destroying in relation to claims 1-14 of our patent application. We are currently evaluating this notification. Any increased prosecution or defense required in relation to such patents and patent applications, whether relating to this third party observation or any other third party challenge or opposition, entails increased cost and resource commitment to the business and may result in patents and patent applications being abandoned, invalidated or narrowed in scope. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, or failure to adequately protect our intellectual property, could enable competitors to develop generic products or use our proprietary information to develop other products that compete with our TCR therapeutic candidates or have additional, material adverse effects upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we provide samples to third parties under material transfer agreements, including to research institutions or other organizations that we cannot control. There is a risk that such third parties could disclose details of those samples or carry out further research in relation to provided samples which results in intellectual property rights that block our future freedom to operate, and to which we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, provision of samples and our confidential information to such parties could facilitate or assist such parties in development of competing products. If third parties claim that our activities or products infringe upon their intellectual property, our operations could be adversely affected. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. We may, from time to time, be notified of claims that we are infringing upon patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties, and we cannot provide assurances that other companies will not, in the future, pursue such infringement claims against us or any third-party proprietary technologies we have licensed. If we were found to infringe upon a patent or other intellectual property right, or if we failed to obtain or renew a license under a patent or other intellectual property right from a third party, or if a third party that we were licensing technologies from was found to infringe upon a patent or other intellectual property rights of another third party, we may be required to pay damages, including triple damages if the infringement is found to be willful, suspend the manufacture of certain TCR therapeutic candidates or reengineer or rebrand our TCR therapeutic candidates, if feasible, or we may be unable to enter certain new product markets. Any such claims could also be expensive and time- consuming to defend and divert management’s attention and resources. Our competitive position could suffer as a result. In addition, if we have declined to enter into a valid non-disclosure or assignment agreement for any reason, we may not own an invention or intellectual property rights and may not be adequately protected. Although we have reviewed certain third-party patents and patent filings that we believe may be relevant to our TCR therapeutic candidates, we have not conducted a full freedom-to-operate search or analysis for such TCR therapeutic candidates, and we may not be aware of patents or pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing our TCR therapeutic candidates. Thus, we cannot guarantee that we can successfully commercialize TCR therapeutic candidates in a way that will not infringe any third party’s intellectual property. 35 Table of Contents Licenses may be required from third parties in relation to any TCR therapeutic candidates offered by us. We may identify third-party intellectual property rights that are required to enable the further development, commercialization, manufacture or development of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Licenses to such intellectual property rights may or may not be available on commercial terms that are acceptable to us. As a result we may incur additional license fees for such intellectual property rights, or the cost and expenses to identify an alternative route for commercialization, that does not require the relevant third-party intellectual property rights, or the cost and diversion of resources required to challenge any such third party intellectual property rights. We are aware of a family of patent applications owned by The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois which include two issued U.S. patents (U.S. 6,759,243 and 7,569,357) which were issued with very broad claims relating to high affinity TCRs. We believe that U.S. Patent 7,569,357, because of certain claim recitations, is not an impediment to our presently contemplated TCR therapeutic candidates. We requested re-examination of U.S. Patent 6,759,243 at the USPTO. In that re-examination, the USPTO adopted our position and rejected all claims under re-examination as anticipated or obvious, and in a related pending patent application of The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois, in an August 18, 2014 Office Action, the USPTO also adopted our position and rejected the claims based on our arguments and evidence of our re-examination request. Through the re-examination process we have been successful in achieving a narrowing of all of the claims of U.S. Patent 6,759,243. While we believe U.S. Patent 6,759,243 will be nonetheless invalid in the form it will issue after re-examination, we do not believe the patent after re-examination will be an impediment to our presently contemplated TCR therapeutic candidates, because of the recitations added by the patentee during re-examination and the U.S. codified doctrine of “intervening rights.” Furthermore, these U.S. patents will likely expire prior to any commercial supply by us of any TCR therapeutic candidate. There is a risk that the owner of the family of patent applications may still try to enforce such patent applications against us which would divert resources and result in increased costs to defend against such enforcement. We have identified third party European patent applications which relate to high affinity TCR proteins and methods. We have filed third-party observations in relation to one of these third party European patent applications. The claims as drafted are broad and as a result could cover soluble TCRs having a specific level of binding and carrying one or more mutations in a complementarity determining region, or CDR, irrespective of the method by which the TCRs are produced. Should these patent applications proceed to grant in Europe with claims of such broad scope, we will need to consider filing Opposition proceedings against the grant of the European patents at the European Patent Office and/or filing for revocation of the national patents derived from the European patents before relevant national patent offices and/or courts. We have also identified a family of third party patents under which we may require a license in relation to a structural component of our lentiviral vector (cPPT) prior to any commercialization of TCR therapeutic candidates. We believe such licenses are available and we are in discussions to procure a license or freedom to operate under the relevant patent rights. We may also require licenses under third-party patents covering certain peptide sequences or the use of those peptides. Such licenses will require payment of sums by us and we cannot guarantee that the terms of such licenses will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could limit the peptides which can be used by us and the efficacy of the final affinity- enhanced TCRs that we are able to offer. Further or other third-party patents and patent applications may be identified from time to time that require prospective action by us to prevent the grant of broad claims. Such prospective action requires time and expense and also impacts on the resources generally available to us. 36 Table of Contents Where we license certain technology from a third party, the prosecution, maintenance and defense of the patent rights licensed from such third party may be controlled by the third party which may impact the scope of patent protection which will be obtained or enforced. Where we license patent rights or technology from a third-party, control of such third-party patent rights may vest in the licensor, particularly where the license is non-exclusive or field restricted. This may mean that we are not able to control or affect the scope of the claims of any relevant third-party patent or have control over any enforcement of such a patent. Where a licensor brings an enforcement action, this could negatively impact our business or result in additional restrictions being imposed on the license we have and the scope of such license, or result in invalidation or limitation of the scope of the licensed patent. In addition, should we wish to enforce the relevant patent rights against a third person, we may be reliant on consent from the relevant licensor or the cooperation of the licensor. The licensor may refuse to bring such action and leave us unable to restrict competitor entry into the market. Issued patents protecting our TCR therapeutic candidates could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court or at the USPTO. If we or one of our licensing partners initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent protecting one of our TCR therapeutic candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent protecting our TCR therapeutic candidate, as applicable, is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace, and there are numerous grounds upon which a third party can assert invalidity or unenforceability of a patent. Third parties may also raise similar claims before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, even outside the context of litigation. Such mechanisms include re-examination, post grant review, and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition proceedings). Such proceedings could result in revocation or amendment to our patents in such a way that they no longer cover our TCR therapeutic candidates. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we, our patent counsel and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection for our TCR therapeutic candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity, and is therefore costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. Recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings have narrowed the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances and weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. For example, in the recent case, Assoc. for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., the U.S. Supreme Court held that certain claims to DNA molecules are not patentable. While we do not believe that any of the patents owned or licensed by us will be found invalid based on this decision, we cannot predict how future decisions by the courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may impact the value of our patents. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in territories outside of the United States may vary and thus affect our ability to obtain revenue from our TCR therapeutic candidates. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our TCR therapeutic candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and the extent of intellectual property rights may be less extensive than those which can be obtained in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. 37 Table of Contents Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceutical products, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth We depend upon our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain employees. We are heavily dependent on the ongoing employment and involvement of certain key employees in particular, James Noble, our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Helen Tayton-Martin, our Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Gwendolyn Binder-Scholl, our Executive Vice-President of Translational Sciences, Rafael Amado, our Chief Medical Officer and Adrian Rawcliffe, our Chief Finance Officer. We do not hold key-man insurance for our senior managers. In addition, James Noble and Dr. Helen Tayton-Martin, are in a personal relationship. They are our co-founders, two of our most senior executive officers and are a vital part of our business. If the personal relationship ended or they could otherwise not amicably work with each other, one of them may decide to leave us which would materially harm our business. In addition, we anticipate a requirement to expand the personnel available to us very rapidly in order to achieve our planned business activities and aims. Such expansion is dependent on our ability to recruit experienced and suitably trained employees or consultants, and to retain such employees on a long term basis. Our ability to take our existing pipeline of TCR therapeutics and to meet the demands of the GSK collaboration may be compromised or delayed where we are unable to recruit sufficient personnel on a timely basis. To induce employees to remain at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided share options that vest over time, with higher awards of share options being made to senior employees. The value to employees of share options that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our share price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have employment agreements with all of our employees, in the United Kingdom, these employment agreements provide for mutual six months’ notice periods in the case of Mr. Noble and Dr. Tayton-Martin; mutual three months’ notice periods in the case of senior managers and mutual one month notice periods for all other employees. In the United States, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment except that our employment agreement with Dr. Binder-Scholl provides for a mutual one month notice period, and our employment agreements with Dr. Rafael Amado, our Chief Medical Officer, and Adrian Rawcliffe, our Chief Financial Officer, provide that Dr. Amado and Mr. Rawcliffe must provide 60 days’ written notice for termination without cause. This means that any of our employees in the United States, except for Dr. Binder-Scholl, Dr. Amado and Mr. Rawcliffe, could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level and senior scientific and medical personnel. We will need to grow the size and capabilities of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of June 30, 2015, we had 116 full-time equivalent employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we must add a significant number of additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, and other personnel. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including: 38 Table of Contents · identifying, recruiting, integrating, maintaining, and motivating additional employees; · managing our internal development efforts effectively, including the clinical and FDA review process for our TCR therapeutic candidates, while complying with our contractual obligations to contractors and other third parties; and · improving our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth, and our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities in order to devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We also rely on third parties to provide certain of our manufacturing and quality capabilities. See “—Risks Related to Our Reliance Upon Third Parties.” If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may not be able to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize our TCR therapeutic candidates and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development, and commercialization goals. We expect to face intense competition, often from companies with greater resources and experience than we have. Immunotherapy is an intensely competitive area with many of the large pharmaceutical companies having products and therapies already in clinical trials for cancer indications and autoimmune diseases. The larger resources of these companies may enable them to take therapies all the way through the regulatory process, while we will require additional investment or input from collaborators such as GSK to take our TCR therapeutic candidates through the regulatory process and commercialization. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly if such companies align with pharmaceutical partners and compete for patients. Results obtained by such competitors in clinical trials could also impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval or delay such approval in the event of a safety issue or other negative clinical result associated with similar T-cell or TCR therapeutic candidates. In particular, we face competition from chimeric antigen receptor T cell, or CAR-T, technologies from companies such as Novartis AG/University of Pennsylvania, Kite Pharma, Inc./Amgen Inc./National Cancer Institute, bluebird bio, Inc./Celgene Corporation/Baylor College of Medicine, Intrexon Corporation/Ziopharm Oncology, Inc./MD Anderson Cancer Center, Juno Therapeutics, Inc./Celgene Corporation/Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Cellectis SA/Pfizer Inc. and Bellicum Pharmaceuticals Inc. In the TCR space, we face competition from Juno Therapeutics, Inc., Kite Pharma, Inc., Medigene AG and Takara Bio, Inc. Kite Pharma has a murine derived TCR product in development targeting NY-ESO-1. Should Kite Pharma or any of our other competitors be successful in advancing a TCR product targeting NY-ESO-1 through development, our ability to develop and advance our NY-ESO TCR therapeutic candidate could be adversely affected. We may also face competition from other non-TCR and non-cell based treatments such as antibody and check point inhibitor therapies offered by companies such as Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca plc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Incyte Corporation, Merck & Co., Inc., and Roche Holding Ltd. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our TCR therapeutic candidates, we may not be the first to market, which could affect both demand for and price of our TCR therapeutic candidates. Although Immunocore is focused on soluble TCRs rather than engineered TCR therapeutic candidates, we could also face competition from Immunocore if it develops or acquires products directed at the same targets or indications as our TCR therapeutic product candidates. Moreover, many of our employees have come from a shared background within Immunocore and there is an awareness within Immunocore of certain of our confidential information on the technology platform controlled through confidentiality agreements. This knowledge could be used by Immunocore to facilitate its own developments or to target competitive products against our products placing it in a preferable position as compared to third party competitors. 39 Table of Contents Failure of our information technology systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business. Our ability to execute our business plan and to comply with regulators’ requirements with respect to data control and data integrity, depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems and similar systems used by third-party providers that we rely on. These systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems, sustained or repeated system failures or problems arising during the upgrade of any of our information systems that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our proprietary technology platform, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In addition, where disruption to such systems occurs at third-party providers, we may have limited ability to find alternative providers in any required timeframes or at all, and such disruption could significantly affect our ability to proceed with clinical or analytical or development programs. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations and those of our third party suppliers and collaborators could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, labor disputes or other business interruptions. While the company has business interruption insurance policies in place, any interruption could seriously harm our ability to timely proceed with any clinical programs or to supply TCR therapeutic candidates on a commercial basis or for use in clinical programs. We are exposed to risks related to currency exchange rates. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United Kingdom. Because our financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, changes in currency exchange rates have had and could have a significant effect on our operating results. In addition, our arrangements with GSK are denominated in pounds sterling. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the pound sterling create risk in several ways, including the following: weakening of the pound sterling may increase the pound sterling cost of overseas research and development expenses and other costs outside the United Kingdom; strengthening of the pound sterling may decrease the value of any future revenues denominated in other currencies; the exchange rates on non-sterling transactions and cash deposits can distort our financial results; and commercial pricing and profit margins are affected by currency fluctuations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company in any taxable year and U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. The rules governing passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, can have adverse effects for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The tests for determining PFIC status for a taxable year depend upon the relative values of certain categories of assets and the relative amounts of certain kinds of income. The determination of whether we are a PFIC depends on the particular facts and circumstances (such as the valuation of our assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets) and may also be affected by the application of the PFIC rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. Based on our estimated gross income, the average value of our assets, including goodwill and the nature of our active business, we do not believe that we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended June 30, 2015. If we are a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as ineligibility for any preferred tax rates on capital gains or on actual or deemed dividends, interest charges on certain taxes treated as deferred, and additional reporting requirements under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations. A U.S. holder of our ordinary shares may be able to mitigate some of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences described above with respect to owning the ordinary shares if we are classified as a PFIC, provided that such U.S. investor is eligible to make, and validly makes, a “mark-to-market” election. In certain circumstances a U.S. Holder can make a “qualified electing fund” election to mitigate some of the adverse tax consequences described with respect to an ownership interest in a PFIC by including in income its share of the PFIC’s income on a current basis. However, we do not currently intend to prepare or provide the information that would enable a U.S. Holder to make a qualified electing fund election. 40 Table of Contents Investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the application of the PFIC rules to our ordinary shares. For more information related to classification as a PFIC, see “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Risks Related to Ownership of our American Depositary Shares (ADSs) The price of our ADSs may be volatile. Many factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the ADSs, including but not limited to: · the commencement, enrollment or results of our planned clinical trials; · the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; · announcements of the failure to obtain regulatory approvals or receipt of a complete response letter from the FDA; · announcements of undesirable restricted labeling indications or patient populations, or changes or delays in regulatory review processes; · announcements of therapeutic innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our clinical trials, manufacturing supply chain or sales and marketing activities; · changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to our TCR therapeutic candidates; · any adverse changes to our relationship with licensors, manufacturers or suppliers; · the failure of our testing and clinical trials; · unanticipated safety concerns; · the failure to retain our existing, or obtain new, collaboration partners; · announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical industry in general; · the achievement of expected product sales and profitability; · the failure to obtain reimbursements for our TCR therapeutic candidates or price reductions; · manufacture, supply or distribution shortages; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · our cash position; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · potential acquisitions; · the trading volume of ADSs on Nasdaq; · sales of our ADSs by us, our executive officers and directors or our shareholders in the future; · general economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in the U.S. equity markets; and · changes in accounting principles. 41 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Further, a decline in the financial markets and related factors beyond our control may cause the price of our ADSs to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the ADSs to decline and dilute shareholders. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. Each ADS represents six ordinary shares and 11,250,000 ADSs, representing 67,500,000 ordinary shares, have been freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), since our IPO. The remaining 357,211,900 ordinary shares are subject to a lock-up period, which we anticipate will expire on November 1, 2015. Any or all of these shares may be released prior to expiration of the lock-up period at the discretion of the lead underwriter for our IPO. Subsequent to the expiration of the lock-up or earlier release of the shares by the lead underwriter, and following conversion into ADSs, these shares will be available for sale subject to volume limitations and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. To the extent any of these shares are sold into the market, particularly in substantial quantities, the market price of our ADSs could decline. We also entered into a registration rights agreement on February 23, 2015, pursuant to which we have agreed, under certain circumstances, to file a registration statement to register the resale of the shares held by certain of our existing shareholders, as well as to cooperate in certain public offerings of such shares. In addition, we have registered all our ordinary shares that we may issue under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and following conversion into ADSs, but subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates under Rule 144. Additionally, the majority of ordinary shares that may be issued under our equity compensation plans also remain subject to vesting in tranches over a four year period. As of June 30, 2015, an aggregate of 5,199,615 options over our ordinary shares had vested and become exercisable. If a large number of our ADSs are sold in the public market after they become eligible for sale, the sales could reduce the trading price of our ADSs and impede our ability to raise future capital. Future issuances of ordinary shares pursuant to our equity incentive plans could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our shareholders. We filed a Registration Statement on Form S-8 on May 6, 2015 that covers an aggregate of 66,999,747 ordinary shares reserved for issuance pursuant to: (i) the Adaptimmune Therapeutics plc 2015 Share Option Scheme and the Adaptimmune Therapeutics plc Company Share Option Plan; and (ii) certain options granted by the Company in consideration for the release of equivalent options granted by Adaptimmune Limited to certain employees, directors and consultants under the Adaptimmune Limited Company Share Option Plan, the Adaptimmune Limited Share Option Scheme and the Adaptimmune Limited 2014 Share Option Scheme. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the Securities and Exchange Commission than U.S. companies. This may limit the information available to holders of the ADSs. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s, or SEC, rules and regulations and, consequently, we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. public companies. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning our company than there is for U.S. public companies. 42 Table of Contents For so long as we are a foreign private issuer, we will file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the close of each fiscal year ended June 30 and reports on Form 6-K relating to certain material events promptly after we publicly announce these events. However, because of the above exemptions for foreign private issuers, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to certain Nasdaq corporate governance rules applicable to U.S. listed companies. We rely on a provision in Nasdaq’s corporate governance rules that allows us to follow English corporate law and the Companies Act 2006 with regard to certain aspects of corporate governance. This allows us to follow certain corporate governance practices that differ in significant respects from the corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies listed on Nasdaq. For example, we are exempt from Nasdaq regulations that require a listed U.S. company to: have a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; require non-management directors to meet on a regular basis without management present; have a quorum for shareholder meetings of not less than 331/3% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s voting stock; promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers that should address certain specified items; and seek shareholder approval for the implementation of certain equity compensation plans and issuances of ordinary shares. In accordance with our Nasdaq listing, our Audit Committee is required to comply with the provisions of Section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act, both of which are also applicable to Nasdaq-listed U.S. companies. However, because we are a foreign private issuer, our Audit Committee is not subject to additional Nasdaq requirements applicable to listed U.S. companies, including an affirmative determination that all members of the Audit Committee are “independent” using more stringent criteria than those applicable to us as a foreign private issuer. We may lose our foreign private issuer status which would then require us to comply with the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime and cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are a foreign private issuer and therefore we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We may no longer be a foreign private issuer as early as December 31, 2015, which would require us to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers as of July 1, 2016. In order to maintain our current status as a foreign private issuer, either (a) a majority of our ordinary shares must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the United States or (b)(i) a majority of our executive officers or directors may not be U.S. citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of our assets cannot be located in the United States and (iii) our business must be administered principally outside the United States. If we lost this status, we would be required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. For example, the annual report on Form 10-K requires domestic issuers to disclose executive compensation information on an individual basis with specific disclosure regarding the domestic compensation philosophy, objectives, annual total compensation (base salary, bonus, equity compensation) and potential payments in connection with change in control, retirement, death or disability, while the annual report on Form 20-F permits foreign private issuers to disclose compensation information on an aggregate basis. We would also have to report our results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, rather than under International Financial Reporting Standards, as a domestic registrant. We would also have to mandatorily comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders would become subject to the short-swing profit disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We may also be required to make changes in our corporate governance practices in accordance with various SEC and Nasdaq rules. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws, if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer, may be significantly higher than the costs we would incur as a foreign private issuer. As a result, we expect that a loss of foreign private issuer status would increase our legal and financial compliance costs and would make some activities highly time consuming and costly. 43 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain that the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will not make our ADSs less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and have elected to take advantage of the following provisions of the JOBS Act: the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; a requirement of only two years of audited financial statements in addition to any required interim financial statements and correspondingly reduced disclosure in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations; not providing all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; not disclosing certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation to employee compensation; not complying with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis and an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies). In addition, to the extent that we no longer qualify as a foreign private issuer, we have elected to take advantage of (1) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and (2) exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation including golden parachute compensation. As a result of these elections, our future financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with these obligations earlier and our investors may not have access to certain information they may deem important. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” which may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected and may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our company. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of May 6, 2015, the date our ADSs began trading; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. We cannot predict if investors will find our ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ADSs less attractive, there may be a less active trading market for our ADSs, and the price of our ADSs may be more volatile and may decline. If we fail to establish and maintain proper internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that beginning with our second annual report following our IPO, management assess and report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Although Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm to issue an annual report that addresses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we have opted to rely on the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act, and consequently will not be required to comply with SEC rules that implement Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until such time as we are no longer an emerging growth company. We expect our first Section 404(a) assessment will take place for our annual report for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. The presence of material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors which, in turn, could lead to errors in our financial reports, delays in our financial reporting, we could require us to restate our operating results or our auditors may be required to issue a qualified audit report. We might not identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls in connection with evaluating our compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, we will need to expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control. 44 Table of Contents If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or, at the appropriate time, our independent auditors are unwilling or unable to provide us with an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors may lose confidence in our operating results, the price of our ADSs could decline and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. In addition, if we are unable to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to remain listed on Nasdaq. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a company whose ADSs are publicly traded in the United States, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a company whose ADSs are publicly traded in the United States since May 6, 2015, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we did not previously incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased, and will continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Our insurance costs have increased, particularly for directors and officers liability insurance, and we may be required to incur further substantial increased costs to maintain the same or similar coverage or be forced to accept reduced coverage in future. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of the ADSs from Nasdaq, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against us, our directors, members of senior management and the experts named in this annual report. Some of our directors, members of senior management and the experts named in this Annual Report are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or us in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them or us based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Mayer Brown International LLP, our English solicitors, has advised us that there is doubt as to whether English courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered and is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in the United Kingdom will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. The United States and the United Kingdom do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of ordinary shares and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and by our Articles of Association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. See “Item 10 B — “Description of Share Capital — Differences in Corporate Law” in this Annual Report for a description of the principal differences between the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to us and, for example, the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to shareholders’ rights and protections. Provisions in the U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. The U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Code, applies, among other things, to an offer for a public company whose registered office is in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) and whose securities are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) if the company is considered by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, or the Takeover Panel, to have its place of central management and control in the United Kingdom (or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man). This is known as the “residency test.” The test for central management and control under the Takeover Code is different from that used by the U.K. tax authorities. Under the Takeover Code, the Takeover Panel will determine whether we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom by looking at various factors, including the structure of our Board, the functions of the directors and where they are resident. 45 Table of Contents If at the time of a takeover offer the Takeover Panel determines that we have our place of central management and control in the United Kingdom, we would be subject to a number of rules and restrictions, including but not limited to the following: (1) our ability to enter into deal protection arrangements with a bidder would be extremely limited;(2) we might not, without the approval of our shareholders, be able to perform certain actions that could have the effect of frustrating an offer, such as issuing shares or carrying out acquisitions or disposals; and (3) we would be obliged to provide equality of information to all bona fide competing bidders. 