Item 1A: Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to LivaNova’s BusinessOur share price constantly changes.LivaNova’s ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market and the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “LIVN.” Our share price may be affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation:•changes in the general condition of the economy and other factors unrelated to our operating performance, including the valuation of the British pound versus other currencies, people’s expectations (favorable or unfavorable) as to our likely growth, or other factors;•regulatory activities and announcements, including activities related to the FDA quality system regulation;•uncertainties associated with governmental and regulatory inquiries and investigations;•the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;•national and regional coverage determinations by third‑party payors, including private insurance companies, Medicare, state Medicaid programs and other international bodies responsible for coverage determinations;•results of studies regarding the safety and efficacy of our products;•results of studies regarding the safety and efficacy of drugs or devices that are competitive or potentially competitive to our products;•clinical trial results and/or regulatory approvals regarding devices that are potential competitors to our products;•annual and quarterly variations in our sales and operating results;•announcements of significant contracts, mergers, acquisitions or capital commitments;•our ability to obtain and maintain favorable coverage and reimbursement for our products;•our ability to find licensees for some of our technology and the terms of any licenses we grant;•security analyst expectations and predictions;•changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;•additions or departures of key management or other personnel;•the potential identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting; •disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights or other potential legal actions;•uncertainties associated with litigation; and•false or misleading reports published by investors intended to drive our stock price up or down for the purpose of profiting from transactions in our stock.Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may cause our share price to decline.Our net sales, expenses and operating results may vary significantly from year to year and quarter to quarter for several reasons, including, without limitation:•The ability of our sales force to effectively market and promote our products, and the extent to which those products gain market acceptance;•the existence and timing of any approvals, changes, or non-coverage determinations for reimbursement by third-party payors;•the rate and size of expenditures incurred on our clinical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and product development efforts;•our ability to obtain and retain qualified personnel;26•the availability of key components, materials and contract services, which depends on our ability to forecast sales, among other things;•investigations of our business and business-related activities by regulatory or other governmental authorities;•variations in timing and quantity of product orders;•temporary manufacturing interruptions or disruptions;•the timing and success of new product and new market introductions, as well as delays in obtaining domestic or foreign regulatory approvals for such introductions;•increased competition, patent expirations or new technologies or treatments;•product recalls or safety alerts;•litigation, including product liability, patent, employment, securities class action, stockholder derivative, general commercial and other lawsuits;•the financial health of our customers, and their ability to purchase our products in the current economic environment; and•other unusual or non-operating expenses, such as expenses related to mergers or acquisitions, may cause operating result variations.As a result of any of these factors, our consolidated results of operations may fluctuate significantly, which may in turn cause our share price to fluctuate. Global healthcare policy changes, including U.S. healthcare reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on LivaNova.In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs, there have been and continue to be proposals by governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. These proposals have resulted in efforts to reform the U.S. healthcare system which may lead to pricing restrictions, limits on the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. In the United States, the federal government enacted legislation, including the Affordable Care Act to overhaul the nation’s healthcare system. While one goal of healthcare reform is to expand coverage to more individuals, it also involves increased government price controls, additional regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act: •imposes an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States. Due to subsequent legislative amendments, the excise tax has been suspended from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, and, absent further legislative action, will be reinstated starting January 1, 2018; •establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; and•implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models.In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013, and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal 27or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.The Affordable Care Act also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital-acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be implemented at the global level or the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.The Italian Parliament introduced new rules for entities that supply goods and services to the Italian National Healthcare System. The new healthcare law is expected to impact the business and financial reporting of companies operating in the medical technology sector that sell medical devices in Italy. A key provision of the law is a ‘payback’ measure, requiring companies selling medical devices in Italy to make payments to the Italian state if medical device expenditures exceed regional maximum ceilings. Companies are required to make payments equal to a percentage of expenditures exceeding maximum regional caps. There is considerable uncertainty about how the law will operate and what the exact timeline is for finalization. Our current assessment of the Italian Medical Device Payback involves significant judgment regarding the expected scope and actual implementation terms of the measure as the latter have not been clarified to date by Italian authorities. We account for the estimated cost of the Medical Device Payback as a deduction from revenue.Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for medical devices and procedures. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third‑party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline. In addition, in the United States, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of LivaNova’s interactions with healthcare providers, for example, federal “sunshine” requirements imposed by the Affordable Care Act on certain manufacturers of devices for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children’s Health Insurance Program regarding any “transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission. Manufacturers must submit reports by the 90th day of each calendar year. Similar laws exist outside the United States, such as in France, which adopted the “Physician Payments Sunshine Act” in 2011. The French act requires companies to publicly disclose agreements with, and certain benefits provided to, certain French healthcare professionals. Other countries are considering or may enact laws or regulations comparable to those implemented in the United States and France. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. In addition, we may continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations.The success and continuing development of our products depend upon maintaining strong relationships with physicians and healthcare professionals. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the 28development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate third-party reimbursement on our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results.Our ability to commercialize our products is dependent, in large part, on whether third-party payors, including private healthcare insurers, managed care plans, governmental programs and others agree to cover the costs and services associated with our products and related procedures in the United States and internationally. Our products are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the United States), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of adequate reimbursement affects which procedures customers perform, the products customers purchase and the prices customers are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. In addition, periodic changes to reimbursement methodologies could have an adverse impact on our business.We may also experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by customers from governmental payors, managed care organizations and other third-party payors, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected.Cost-containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices they are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices.Major third-party payors for healthcare provider services continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, could result in increased discounts and contractual adjustments to healthcare provider charges for services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Italy, France, Japan and other countries may limit the price of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Healthcare providers may respond to such cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products.The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these payors. If payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices or those that use our components may decline significantly, and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our products and/or components. This could have a material or adverse impact on our results of earnings and cash flows.Patient confidentiality and federal and state privacy and security laws and regulations in the United States may adversely impact our selling model.U.S. HIPAA establishes federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health information. The privacy and security rules address the use and disclosure of individual healthcare information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed. HIPAA provides both criminal and civil fines and penalties for covered entities or business associates that fail to comply. If we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could suffer civil penalties up to or exceeding $50,000 per violation, with a maximum of $1.5 million for multiple violations of an identical requirement during a calendar year and criminal penalties with fines up to $250,000 and potential imprisonment.29In addition to HIPAA, virtually every state has enacted one or more laws to safeguard privacy, and these laws vary significantly from state to state and change frequently. Even if our business model is compliant with the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rule and the privacy laws of the states we operate in, it may not be compliant with the privacy laws of all states. Because the operation of our business involves the collection and use of substantial amounts of “protected health information,” we endeavor to conduct our business as a “covered entity” under the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rule and consistent with the state privacy laws, obtaining HIPAA-compliant patient authorizations where required to support our use and disclosure of patient information. We also sometimes act as a “business associate” for a covered entity. The Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services or another government enforcement agency may determine that our business model or operations are not in compliance with the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules, which could subject us to penalties, could severely limit our ability to market and sell our products under our existing business model and could harm our business growth and consolidated financial position.Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to hacker intrusion, malicious viruses and other cybercrime attacks, which may harm our business and expose the company to liability.Our operations depend to a great extent on the reliability and security of our information technology system, software and network, which are subject to damage and interruption caused by human error, problems relating to the telecommunications network, software failure, natural disasters, sabotage, viruses and similar events. Any interruption in our systems could have a negative effect on the quality of products and services offered and, as a result, on customer demand and therefore volume of sales.Our product sales are subject to regulatory clearance or approval and our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to maintain regulatory clearances and approvals, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, such clearances or approvals for future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products could suffer. LivaNova’s medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state and foreign government authorities. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness and includes regulation of, among other things:•design, development and manufacturing; •testing, labeling, packaging, content and language of instructions for use, and storage; •clinical trials; •product safety; •pre-market clearance and approval; •marketing, sales and distribution (including making product claims); •advertising and promotion; •product modifications; •recordkeeping procedures; •reports of corrections, removals, enhancements, recalls and field corrective actions; •post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; •complying with the new federal law and regulations requiring Unique Device Identifiers on devices and also requiring the submission of certain information about each device to the FDA’s Global Unique Device Identification Database; and •product import and export laws.Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing medical device can be marketed in the United States, the FDA must first grant either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or approval of a premarket approval application unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device. To establish 30substantial equivalence, the applicant must demonstrate that: (i) the device has the same intended use; (ii) the device has the same technological characteristics; and (iii) to the extent the technological characteristics are different, that they do not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence, though the 510(k) pathway generally requires less data and a shorter review period than a PMA approval. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. The 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive, lengthy and sometimes unpredictable. The processes also entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from six to 18 months, but may take longer if more data is needed. The PMA pathway is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to five years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA until an approval is obtained. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all.In our Neuromodulation Business, for example, the FDA required us to conduct a post-approval patient dosing study and a patient registry as a condition of approval for the depression indication. The results of the dosing study have been included in our product labeling, and the results of the patient registry may be included in our product labeling. If we fail to complete the patient registry in a timely manner, we may be subject to regulatory action, including withdrawal of our depression indication approval. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its breadth, may be detrimental to our business.Modifications to our marketed products may require new clearances or approvals, and may require LivaNova to cease marketing or recall the modified products until required clearances or approvals are obtained.An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade our products, add new features and expand clearance or approval of our current products to new indications. In the United States, any modification to a PMA-approved device generally requires additional approval by the FDA. Similarly, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, technology, materials, packaging and certain manufacturing processes, may require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, PMA approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance; but the FDA may (and often does) review the manufacturer’s decision, and, where the FDA does not agree, may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a 510(k) or PMA, and may require recall of the affected device until clearance or approval is obtained. LivaNova and its subsidiaries have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. No assurance can be given that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval.If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and recall a modified device until it obtains a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA.Furthermore, the FDA’s ongoing review of the 510(k) clearance process may make it more difficult for us to make modifications to our previously cleared products, either by imposing more strict requirements on when a new 510(k) notification for a modification to a previously cleared product must be submitted, or applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions. For example, the FDA is currently reviewing its guidance describing when it believes a manufacturer is obligated to submit a new 510(k) for modifications or changes to a previously cleared device. The FDA is expected to issue revised guidance to assist device manufacturers in making this determination. It is unclear whether the FDA’s approach in this new guidance will result in substantive changes to existing policy and practice regarding the assessment of whether a new 510(k) is required for changes or modifications to existing devices. The FDA continues to review its 510(k) clearance process, which could result in additional changes to regulatory requirements or guidance documents, which could increase the costs of compliance or restrict our ability to maintain current clearances.Outside of the United States, our medical devices must comply with the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which they are marketed, and compliance may be costly and time-consuming. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in jurisdictions outside the United States will prevent LivaNova from marketing our products in such jurisdictions.31LivaNova currently markets, and intends to continue to market, our products outside the United States. To market and sell products in countries outside the United States, we must seek and obtain regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations and comply with the laws and regulations of those countries. These laws and regulations, including the requirements for approvals, certifications or registrations and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval in addition to other risks.In order for LivaNova to market its products in the Member States of the EEA, our devices are required to comply with the essential requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directives (Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices, as amended, and Council Directive 90/385/EEC of 20 June 2009 relating to active implantable medical devices, as amended). Compliance with these requirements entitles LivaNova to affix the CE conformity mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be commercialized in the EEA. In order to demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE conformity mark, an applicant must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. Except for low risk medical devices (Class I non-sterile, non-measuring devices), where the manufacturer can issue an EC Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directives, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body, which is an organization accredited by a Member State of the EEA, to conduct conformity assessments. The Notified Body would typically audit and examine the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of the device before issuing a certification demonstrating compliance with the essential requirements. Based on this certification, we can draw up an EC Declaration of Conformity, which allows us to affix the CE mark to our products.In September 2012, the European Commission published proposals for the revision of the EU regulatory framework for medical devices. The proposal would replace the Medical Devices Directive with a new regulation (the “Medical Devices Regulation”). Unlike the Directives that must be implemented into national laws, the Medical Devices Regulation would be directly applicable in all EEA Member States and so is intended to eliminate current national differences in regulation of medical devices. In October 2013, the European Parliament approved a package of reforms to the European Commission's proposals. Under the revised proposals, only designated "special notified bodies" would be entitled to conduct conformity assessments of high-risk devices. These special notified bodies will need to notify the European Commission when they receive an application for a conformity assessment for a new high-risk device. The European Commission will then forward the notification and the accompanying documents on the device to the MDCG for an opinion. If finally adopted, the Medical Devices Regulation is expected to enter into force in 2016 and become applicable three years thereafter. The adoption of the Medical Devices Regulation may, however, be materially delayed. In its current form it would, among other things, also impose additional reporting requirements on manufacturers of high risk medical devices, impose an obligation on manufacturers to appoint a "qualified person" responsible for regulatory compliance, and provide for more strict clinical evidence requirements. These new rules and procedures may result in increased regulatory oversight of our devices and this may, in turn, increase the costs, time and requirements that need to be met in order to maintain or place such devices on the EEA market.LivaNova may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals or certifications outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Clearance or approval by the FDA does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities or Notified Bodies in other countries, and approval or certification by one foreign regulatory authority or Notified Body does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. We may be required to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical studies even if the FDA clearance or approval, or the right to bear the CE mark, has been obtained. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, certifications or registrations in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.If LivaNova’s marketed medical devices are defective or otherwise pose safety risks, the FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities could require their recall, or we may initiate a recall of our products voluntarily.The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities may require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers, on their own initiative, may recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. We have initiated voluntary product recalls in the past.32A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our sales agencies could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. Any recall could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and the ability to generate profits. We may initiate voluntary actions to withdraw or remove or repair our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA as a recall. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, it could require us to report those actions as recalls. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. In addition, depending on the corrective action we take to redress a product’s deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we will need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we may market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines.In the EEA, our European operations must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System, the purpose of which is to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of reoccurrence of incidents related to the use of a medical device. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the EEA. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in labeling or instructions that may, directly or indirectly, lead or have led to death or serious health deterioration of a patient. Incidents are evaluated by the EEA Competent Authorities to whom they have been reported, and where appropriate, information is disseminated between them in the form of National Competent Authority Reports (“NCARs”). The Medical Device Vigilance System is further intended to facilitate a direct, early and harmonized implementation of Field Safety Corrective Actions (“FSCAs”), across the Member States of the EEA where the device is in use. An FSCA is an action taken by a manufacturer to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its legal representative to its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices.A future recall announcement in the United States, EEA or elsewhere could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our revenue.If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.Under the FDA MDR regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our products have or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending against any potential lawsuits, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating the business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.Regulatory action or concern over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) may limit our ability to market products containing bovine material.Certain of our products, including our Perceval, Crown PRT, Solo Smart and Mitroflow tissue valves, are manufactured using bovine tissue. Concerns relating to the potential transmission of BSE, commonly known as “mad cow disease,” from cows to humans may result in reduced acceptance of products containing bovine materials. Some medical device regulatory agencies have considered and are considering whether to continue to permit the sale of medical devices that incorporate certain animal material. While we are not aware of any reported cases of transmission of BSE through medical products, the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute products containing bovine material, or the imposition of a regulatory requirement that we procure material for these products from alternate sources, could result in lost market opportunities, harm the continued commercialization and distribution of such products and impose additional costs on us. We 33have not experienced any significant adverse impact on our sales as a result of concerns regarding BSE, but no assurance can be given that such an impact may not occur in the future. Our manufacturing operations require us to comply with the FDA’s and other governmental authorities’ laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and production of medical devices, which is costly and could subject us to enforcement action.LivaNova and certain of its third-party manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) requirements, as embodied in the QSR which covers the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of medical device products in the United States. LivaNova and certain of its suppliers also are subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process for products marketed outside of the United States. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced (routine) and unannounced (for cause or directed) inspections of manufacturing facilities, during which the FDA may issue Forms FDA-483 listing inspectional observations which, if not addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction, can result in further enforcement action. Similar inspections are carried out in the EEA by Notified Bodies and EEA Competent Authorities. The failure by LivaNova or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in:•untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions or consent decrees;•customer notifications or repair, replacement, refund, recall, detention or seizure of products;•operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;•refusal to grant or delay in granting 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products or modified products;•withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted;•refusal to grant export approval for our products; or •civil penalties or criminal prosecution.Any of these actions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet customers’ demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and ability to generate profits. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in failure to produce products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.LivaNova is subject to substantial post-market government regulation and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.Our medical devices remain subject to regulation by numerous government agencies following clearance or approval, including the global device regulatory bodies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution, reporting, importing and exporting of our medical devices. In recent years, the FDA in particular has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies.In December 2015, we received an FDA Warning Letter alleging certain violations of FDA regulations applicable to our 3T Heater Cooler devices and our Munich, Germany and Arvada, Colorado manufacturing facilities. The Warning Letter included an immediate prohibition on the importation of 3T Heater Cooler devices to the United States. We take these matters seriously and are working diligently to resolve the concerns raised by the FDA and to reduce any adverse impact this import restriction will have on existing U.S. customers of 3T Heater Cooler devices. We believe that the FDA’s concerns can be resolved without a material impact on our financial results. Manufacturing and shipment of all of the Company’s products other than the 3T Heater Cooler are unaffected by this limitation at the present time and will continue as normal. For further information, please refer to “Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings” in our consolidated financial statements included in this Report on Form 10-K/T.Device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for “off-label” uses, 34including actions alleging that federal healthcare program reimbursement of products promoted for “off-label” uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with “off-label” promotion restrictions can result in significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government.We use many distributors and independent sales representatives in certain territories and thus rely upon their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, such as the FDCA, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, similar laws under countries located outside the United States and other applicable federal, state or international laws. If a global regulatory body were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, it could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The global device regulatory bodies may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against, or recommend prosecution of, our officers, employees, or our company itself. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling its products.LivaNova is also subject to various environmental laws and regulations worldwide. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.In addition to the above-referenced laws and regulations, any governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, global regulatory bodies’ regulations and guidance can be revised or reinterpreted in ways that may significantly affect our business and products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.Product liability claims could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products. We have elected to self-insure with respect to a portion of our product liability risks and hold global insurance policies in amounts we believe are adequate to cover future losses. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. Our failure to comply with rules relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, false claims and privacy and security laws may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.35Our devices and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by various governmental agencies worldwide responsible for coverage, reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services. In the United States, for example, federal government healthcare laws apply when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursable under a U.S. federal government-funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include:•the Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation; in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;•federal civil and criminal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. Private individuals can file suits on behalf of the government under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim;•the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier;•federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation;•HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;•the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) information related to payments or other “transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other “transfers of value” to such physician owners. Manufacturers are required to submit reports to CMS by the 90th day of each calendar year;•the FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity; the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both public and private sectors; and bribery provisions contained in the German Criminal Code, which, pursuant to draft legislation being prepared by the German government, may make the corruption and corruptibility of physicians in private practice and other healthcare professionals a criminal offense; and•analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other 36healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.The risk of LivaNova being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with surgeons and other healthcare providers, some of whom recommend, purchase and/or prescribe our devices, group purchasing organizations and our independent sales agents and distributors, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. LivaNova is also exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors, independent sales agents and distributors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity. While we have policies and procedures in place prohibiting such activity, misconduct by these parties could include, among other infractions or violations, intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or unauthorized activity that violates FDA regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, manufacturing standards, federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data or other commercial or regulatory laws or requirements. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by our employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting LivaNova from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations.There are similar laws and regulations applicable to LivaNova outside the United States, all of which are subject to evolving interpretations. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting or government healthcare programs, and could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, a governmental authority may seek to hold us liable for successor liability violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire.If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could also be subject to exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future losses.Our insurance policies (including general and products liability) provide insurance in such amounts and against such risks we have reasonably determined to be prudent in accordance with industry practices or as is required by law or regulation. Although, based on historical loss trends, we believe that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses; we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical trends may not be indicative of future losses, and losses from unanticipated claims could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components we produce. Increasing pricing pressures as a result of industry consolidation could have an adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 37We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing its patent and other proprietary rights against others. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation against LivaNova could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products.We also rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us. Patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology and may limit our competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.In October 2009 for example, we entered into a license arrangement with Flint Hills Scientific, L.L.C. (“Flint Hills”), which was amended in January 2011 and January 2015. The license relates to the ability of the AspireSR generator to, among other things, provide additional stimulation automatically by responding to a patient’s relative heart-rate changes that exceed variable thresholds. The license provides for a royalty fee in the low single digit percentages as it relates to AspireSR sales. Failure to protect such a license arrangement could have a material adverse effect on the Neuromodulation Business Unit.In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market our products are not uniform and may not protect our intellectual property rights equally. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in particular countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful.Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, we rely upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing or legacy businesses as well as in new areas.We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.Our products are the subject of clinical trials conducted by LivaNova, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance or approval for new products and modifications to or new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by LivaNova, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market’s or global regulatory bodies’ perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product clearances or approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical 38trials does not always ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and studies. Clinical studies must also be conducted in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (“GCP”) requirements administered by the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities, and global regulatory bodies may undertake enforcement action against us based on a failure to adhere to these requirements. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize new products or product modifications. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product’s profile, which could inhibit further marketing and development of such products.The global medical device industry is highly competitive and LivaNova may be unable to compete effectively.In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of specialized products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, or technologies, as discussed above, may make our products or proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. We face increasing competition for our indication specific patents for certain products. Competitive factors include: •product quality, reliability and performance; •product technology; •breadth of product lines and product services; •ability to identify new market trends;•customer support; •price;•capacity to recruit engineers, scientists and other qualified employees; and•reimbursement approval from governmental payors and private healthcare insurance providers. Shifts in industry market share can occur in connection with product issues, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we are increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or new versions of our existing products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer.For example, in our Neuromodulation business, our indication-specific patent protection for the VNS Therapy System for epilepsy and depression indications has expired. As a result, we could be subject to wider competition from medical devices without legal recourse to challenge our competitors based on patent infringement. For example, in November 2013, the FDA approved NeuroPace, Inc.’s responsive neurostimulation device for the treatment of refractory epilepsy. This device includes electrodes placed in pre-determined areas in the brain where seizures are thought to originate. NeuroPace has commenced commercial activity in the United States. In addition, a company based in Europe, Neurotech, SA, which is now owned by Sorin, has obtained authorization to affix the CE Mark to market a device capable of vagus nerve stimulation, and CerebralRx Ltd., based in Israel also has CE Mark approval for an implantable device capable of vagus nerve stimulation. CerebralRx Ltd. has engaged in tender offers in Italy, subjecting us to competition in that market. As a practical matter, we are always subject to competition from new and existing drugs. In the future, we expect to be subject to competition from both medical devices and drugs in the United States and other countries, which may reduce our sales and earnings or limit our growth. In addition, we believe that a company in China may be developing an implantable device that provides neuromodulation therapy to the vagus nerve; however we are not privy to details regarding any such device, including its commercial launch.If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, the results of our operations will suffer.We may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from governmental payors, managed care organizations and other third-party payors, increased market power of our customers as the 39medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce expenses, the results of our operations will be adversely affected.We are subject to the risks of international economic and political conditions.Our international operations are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business overseas and under foreign laws, regulations and customs. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations, violations of U.S. or local laws, including, but not limited to, the U.S. FCPA, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business and our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.Since 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. This global financial crisis, including the European sovereign debt crisis, has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy. Customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are either with third party intermediaries marketing, selling and distributing our products or with national healthcare systems in many countries, and repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of all of our customers worldwide. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of receivables could adversely affect results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU or the failure of the euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our revenue, financial condition or results of operations.We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales worldwide, including in emerging markets outside Europe and the United States, which could expose us to greater risks associated with sales and operations in these regions. Emerging economies have less mature product regulatory systems and can have more volatile financial markets. Our profitability and operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:•local product preferences and product requirements;•longer-term receivables than are typical in the EU or the United States;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the EU or the United States;•trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements;•workforce instability;•political and economic instability;•the FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity; the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both public and private sectors; and bribery provisions contained in the German Criminal Code, which, pursuant to draft legislation being prepared by the German government, may make the corruption and corruptibility of physicians in private practice and other healthcare professionals a criminal offense; and•analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device 40manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.LivaNova is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. We transact business in numerous countries around the world and expect that a significant portion of our business will continue to take place in international markets. Consolidated financial statements are prepared in our functional currency, while the financial statements of each of our subsidiaries are prepared in the functional currency of that entity.Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the functional currencies of our foreign currency entities against the functional currency of LivaNova will impact our results of operations and financial condition. Several of our subsidiaries conduct transactions in currencies different than their functional currency. As such, it is expected that our revenue and earnings will continue to be exposed to the risks that may arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Although we may elect to hedge certain foreign currency exposure, we cannot be certain that the hedging activity will eliminate our currency risk.We are exposed to significant risks in relation to compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic sanctions programs.LivaNova does business on a worldwide basis, which requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions. Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the United Nations, the EU and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”) and regulations set forth under the Comprehensive Iran Accountability Divestment Act. The FCPA prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. The provisions of the U.K. Bribery Act extend beyond the bribery of foreign public officials and are more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries.As a result of doing business in foreign countries, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where we, our partners or agents operate. Some of the international locations in which we operate, often in emerging markets, lack a developed legal system and have high levels of corruption. Our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide and the employment of local agents in the countries in which we operate increases the risk of violations of anti-corruption laws, OFAC regulations or similar laws. Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. In addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business.While we believe we have a strong culture of compliance and adequate systems of control, we will seek to continuously improve our systems of internal controls and to remedy any weaknesses identified. There can be no assurance, however, that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents or partners and, as a result, we may be subject to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition or results of operations.In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, Asia and Latin America, we sell our products through distributors who may misrepresent our products.Selling our products through distributors, particularly in public tenders, may expose us to a higher degree of risk. Our distributors are third parties retained by us to sell our products in different markets. However, our agents and distributors are independent contractors. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both. 41Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. LivaNova is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in the United States, the EU and various jurisdictions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various other foreign jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We believe that our accruals reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of ongoing audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate or results of operations.LivaNova is subject to lawsuits.LivaNova is or has been a defendant in a number of lawsuits for, among other things, alleged products liability and suits alleging patent infringement, and could be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation (including tax litigation) to which we are a party. Any such future losses, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. For a description of our material pending legal and regulatory proceedings and settlements, refer to “Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings” in our consolidated financial statements included in this Report on Form 10-K/T.Laws and/or collective bargaining agreements relating to employees may impact LivaNova’s flexibility to redefine and/or strategically reposition our activities.In many of the countries where we operate, employees are covered by various laws and/or collective bargaining agreements that endow them, through their local or national representatives, with the right to be consulted in relation to specific issues, including the downsizing or closing of departments and staff reductions. The laws and/or collective bargaining agreements that are applicable to these agreements could have an impact on our flexibility, as they apply to programs to redefine and/or strategically reposition our activities, which could occur antecedent to the completion of the Mergers or in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to implement staff downsizing programs or even temporary interruptions of employment relationships is predicated on the approval of government entities and the consent of labor unions. Union-organized work stoppages by employees could have a negative impact on our business.Risks related to management’s performance.To a large extent, our success is predicated on the ability of its management team to effectively manage LivaNova and the individual businesses that it operates. The loss of the services of a senior manager or other key employee without an adequate replacement or the inability to attract and retain new and qualified resources could have a negative impact on our business outlook, activities and operating and financial results.Risks related to access to financial resources.The credit lines provided by our lenders are governed by clauses, commitments and covenants. The failure to comply with these provisions can constitute a failure to perform a contractual obligation, which authorizes the lender banks to demand the immediate repayment of the facilities, making it difficult to obtain alternative resources.Changes in our financial position are the result of a number of factors, specifically including the achievement of budgeted objectives and the trends shaping general economic conditions, and the financial markets and the industry within which we operate. We expect to generate the resources needed to repay maturing indebtedness and fund scheduled investments from the cash flow produced by our operations, our available liquidity, the renewal or refinancing of bank borrowings and possibly, access to the capital markets. Even under current market conditions, we expect that our operations will generate adequate financial resources. Nevertheless, given the volatility in current financial markets, the possibility that problems in the banking and monetary markets could hinder the normal handling of financial transactions cannot be excluded.Certain of our debt instruments will require us to comply with certain affirmative covenants and specified financial covenants and ratios.42Certain restrictions in our debt instruments could affect our ability to operate and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance capital needs. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control such as prevailing economic, financial, regulatory and industry conditions. If any of these restrictions or covenants is breached, we could be in default under one or more of our debt instruments, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness under such agreements and cross defaults under its other debt instruments. Any such actions could result in the enforcement of our lenders’ security interests and/or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.As an English public limited company, certain capital structure decisions will require shareholder approval which may limit LivaNova’s flexibility to manage its capital structure.LivaNova is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares (or rights to subscribe for or convertible into shares) with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. This authorization would need to be renewed by LivaNova’s shareholders prior to or upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). The LivaNova articles of association authorize the allotment of additional shares for a period of five years from the date of the adoption of the LivaNova articles up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,764,463 ordinary shares, representing 20% of the number of shares in the capital of LivaNova as of October 19, 2015, the date of the adoption of the LivaNova articles, which authorization will need to be renewed upon expiration but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period) and/or may be sought to allot a larger number of shares than specified in the existing authorization. English law also generally provides shareholders with pre-emptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the LivaNova articles, or shareholders in general meeting, to exclude or disapply pre-emptive rights. Such an exclusion or disapplication of pre-emptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the LivaNova articles, if the exclusion is contained in the LivaNova articles, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution; in either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed by LivaNova’s shareholders prior to or upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). The LivaNova articles exclude pre-emptive rights in relation to an allotment of shares for cash pursuant to the authority referred to above for a period of five years following the date of the adoption of the LivaNova articles, which exclusion will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) to remain effective, but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period) and/or may be sought to apply a larger number of shares than specified in the existing, disapplication authority. English law also generally prohibits a public company from repurchasing its own shares without the prior approval of shareholders by ordinary resolution, being a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes cast, and other formalities. Such approval may be valid for a maximum period of up to five years. Risks related to the reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.LivaNova maintains manufacturing operations in 9 countries located throughout the world and purchases many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Some of these companies are highly unionized. A close collaborative relationship between a manufacturer and its suppliers is typical in the medical device industry. While this approach can produce economic benefits in terms of lower costs, it also causes us to rely heavily on our suppliers. As a result, any problem affecting a supplier (whether due to external or internal causes) could have a negative impact on LivaNova.In addition, we manufacture our products at our own facilities or through subcontractors located in various countries, purchasing the components and materials used to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. However, in a few limited cases, specific components and raw materials are purchased from primary or main suppliers (or in some cases, a single supplier) for reasons related to quality assurance, cost-effectiveness ratio and availability. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure supply continuity, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will always be successful. Moreover, due to strict standards and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, we may not be able to quickly locate new supply sources in response to a supply reduction or interruption, with negative effects on its ability to manufacture its products effectively and in a timely fashion. 43We manufacture our products at production facilities in Italy, France, Costa Rica, Germany, the United States, Canada, Brazil, Australia and the Dominican Republic, all of which are exposed to the risk of production stoppages caused by exceptional or accidental events (fires, shutdowns of access roads, etc.) or natural calamities (floods, earthquakes, etc.). Even though we have implemented what we believe to be appropriate preventive actions and insurance coverage, the possibility that the occurrence of events of exceptional severity or duration could have an impact on our performance cannot be excluded. Natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism and other events could adversely affect our future revenue and operating income.Natural disasters (including pandemics), war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by governmental entities or by our customers or suppliers in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the areas in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.LivaNova’s inability to integrate recently acquired businesses or to successfully complete future acquisitions could limit our future growth or otherwise be disruptive to our ongoing business.From time to time, we expect to pursue acquisitions in support of our strategic goals. In connection with any such acquisitions, we face significant challenges in managing and integrating any expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our success in implementing this strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities.The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire into our existing business. The integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Failure to successfully manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that our investments, alliances and acquired businesses will become profitable or remain so. If our investments, alliances or acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that could affect the success of potential future acquisitions include: •the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; •adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies; •any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases; •our ability to retain key employees; and •the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. Risks Relating to LivaNova Following Completion of the Mergers LivaNova may not realize the cost savings, synergies and other benefits that are anticipated as a result of the Mergers.The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result of the completed Mergers, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Sorin and Cyberonics. The integration process may disrupt LivaNova’s business operations and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected to be realized in connection with the Mergers. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of Sorin and Cyberonics or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the Mergers could cause an interruption of the company’s activities and could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause the 44combined company’s stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:•managing a significantly larger company;•coordinating geographically separate organizations;•the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters;•retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;•integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible;•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;•coordinating distribution and marketing efforts;•integrating information technology, communications and other systems;•changes in applicable laws and regulations;•managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; •unforeseen expenses associated with the Mergers; and •effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals.Many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact LivaNova’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of Sorin and Cyberonics are integrated successfully, LivaNova may not realize the full benefits of the Mergers, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. As a result, LivaNova cannot assure our stockholders that the combination of Sorin and Cyberonics will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated.Our business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the Mergers. Parties with which we do business may experience uncertainty associated with the Mergers. Our business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than LivaNova and our subsidiaries. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations or prospects, including an adverse effect on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Mergers. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees due to uncertainty associated with the recent Mergers. Since the Mergers are complete, LivaNova’s success will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees of Sorin and Cyberonics and hire new personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. Current and prospective LivaNova employees may experience uncertainty about the effect of the Mergers, which may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel.In addition, pursuant to change-in-control provisions in our employment and transition agreements, certain of our key employees are entitled to receive severance payments upon a constructive termination of employment. Certain of our key employees potentially could terminate their employment following specified circumstances set forth in the applicable employment or transition agreement, including certain changes in such key employees’ title, status, authority, duties, responsibilities or compensation, and collect severance. Such circumstances could occur in connection with the Mergers as a result of changes in roles and responsibilities. If our key employees depart, the continued integration of Sorin’s and Cyberonics’ businesses may be more difficult and LivaNova’s operations may be harmed. Furthermore, we may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for departing employees and may lose significant expertise and talent relating to the businesses of Sorin or Cyberonics, and LivaNova’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Mergers may 45be adversely affected. In addition, there could be disruptions to or distractions for the workforce and management associated with activities of labor unions or works councils or integrating employees into the combined company. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to attract or retain key employees to the same extent that the legacy Sorin and Cyberonics companies were able to attract or retain employees in the past.We have and will continue to incur certain transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the Mergers. We have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the Mergers. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges as well as ongoing expenses related to facilities and systems consolidation costs, severance payments and other potential employment-related costs, including payments remaining to be made to certain Sorin and Cyberonics executives. In the transitional period April 25, 2015 to December 31, 2015, we incurred $42.1 million in expenses related to the Mergers and expect additional expenses in future for the integration of the two merged businesses. In addition, we incurred $13.7 million and $11.3 million in integration and restructuring expenses, respectively, during the prior year, of which integration expenses related to systems integration, organization structure integration, finance, synergy and tax planning, transitioning of accounting methodologies, our listing on the LSE and certain re-branding efforts, and restructuring efforts related to our intent to leverage economies of scale, eliminate overlapping corporate expenses and streamline distributions, logistics and office functions in order to reduce overall costs. While we assumed a certain level of expenses in connection with the terms of the Transaction Agreement, there are many factors beyond our control, including unanticipated costs that could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Although we expect that the benefits of the Mergers will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that LivaNova should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and LivaNova may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes. LivaNova believes that under current law, it is treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes because it is a U.K. incorporated entity. Although LivaNova is incorporated in the U.K., the IRS may assert that it should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Code. For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation, except as provided under Section 7874. Subject to the discussion of Section 7874 below, because LivaNova is a U.K. incorporated entity, it would be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. For LivaNova to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, in connection with the Mergers completed on October 19, 2015, either (i) the former stockholders of Cyberonics must own (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of LivaNova ordinary shares by reason of holding shares of Cyberonics common stock, or (ii) LivaNova must have substantial business activities in the U.K. after the Mergers (taking into account the activities of LivaNova’s expanded affiliated group). For purposes of Section 7874, “expanded affiliated group” (“EAG”) means a foreign corporation and all subsidiaries in which the foreign corporation, directly or indirectly, owns more than 50% of the shares by vote and value. LivaNova does not expect to have substantial business activities in the U.K. within the meaning of these rules.LivaNova believes that because the former stockholders of Cyberonics own (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of LivaNova ordinary shares by reason of holding shares of Cyberonics common stock, the test set forth above to treat LivaNova as a foreign corporation was satisfied in connection with the Mergers completed on October 19, 2015. However, the IRS may disagree with the calculation of the percentage of the LivaNova ordinary shares deemed held by former holders of Cyberonics common stock by reason of being former holders of Cyberonics common stock due to the calculation provisions laid out under Section 7874 and accompanying guidance (the “Section 7874 Percentage”). The rules relating to calculating the Section 7874 Percentage are new and subject to uncertainty, and thus it cannot be assured that the IRS will agree that the ownership requirements to treat LivaNova as a foreign corporation were met. In addition, there have been legislative proposals to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including by potentially causing LivaNova to be treated as a U.S. corporation if the management and control of LivaNova and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the United States. There have also been recent IRS publications expanding the application of Section 7874 and there could be prospective or retroactive changes to Section 7874 or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder that could result in LivaNova being treated as a U.S. corporation.46The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that Section 7874 does not limit Cyberonics’ and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes and does not impose an excise tax on gain recognized by certain individuals.If the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80%, Section 7874 imposes a minimum level of tax on any “inversion gain” of a U.S. corporation (and any U.S. person related to the U.S. corporation) after the acquisition. Inversion gain is defined as (i) the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person during the 10-year period following the Cyberonics merger, and (ii) any income received or accrued during such period by reason of a license of any property by the U.S. corporation to a foreign related person. The effect of this provision is to deny the use of certain U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset U.S. tax liability, if any, attributable to such inversion gain. In addition, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department have issued guidance that has further limited benefits of certain post-combination transactions for combinations resulting in a Section 7874 Percentage of at least 60% but less than 80%, and have announced the intention to issue future guidance that could potentially limit benefits of interest deductions from intercompany debt or other deductions deemed to inappropriately “strip” U.S. source earnings. Additionally, if the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80%, Section 7874 and rules related thereto would impose an excise tax under Section 4985 of the Code (“Section 4985 Excise Tax”) on the gain recognized by certain “disqualified individuals” (including officers and directors of Cyberonics) on certain Cyberonics stock-based compensation held thereby at a rate equal to 15%. If the Section 4985 Excise Tax is applicable, the compensation committee of the Cyberonics board has determined that it is appropriate to provide such individuals with a payment with respect to the excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such excise tax had been applied.LivaNova believes the Section 7874 Percentage following the combination of Cyberonics and Sorin was less than 60%. As a result, LivaNova believes that (i) Cyberonics and its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. tax liability, if any, resulting from certain subsequent specified taxable transactions, and (ii) “disqualified individuals” will not be subject to the Section 4985 Excise Tax. However, the rules relating to calculating the Section 7874 Percentage are new and subject to uncertainty, and thus it cannot be assured that the IRS will agree that the Section 7874 Percentage following the combination of Cyberonics and Sorin was less than 60%.LivaNova’s status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes could be affected by a change in law. LivaNova believes that under current law, it is treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes because it is a U.K. incorporated entity. However, changes to the inversion rules in Section 7874 of the Code or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to LivaNova and its respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals and IRS guidance have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including by reducing the Section 7874 Percentage threshold at or above which LivaNova would be treated as a U.S. corporation or by determining LivaNova’s U.S. corporate tax residence based on the location of the management and control of LivaNova and its affiliates. Any such changes to Section 7874 or other such legislation, if passed, could have a significant adverse effect on LivaNova’s financial results.Future changes to U.S. and foreign tax laws could adversely affect LivaNova. The U.S. Congress, the U.K. Government, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where LivaNova and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. Additionally, recent legislative, treaty and regulatory proposals in the United States would impose certain earnings stripping limitations, among others, on LivaNova and its affiliates including if at least 60% of the LivaNova ordinary shares (by vote or value) are considered to be held by former holders of Cyberonics common stock by reason of their holding Cyberonics common stock for purposes of Section 7874. In addition, other recent legislative proposals would treat LivaNova as a U.S. corporation if the management and control of LivaNova and its affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the United States and/or would reduce the Section 7874 Percentage threshold at or above which LivaNova would be treated as a U.S. corporation. Furthermore, the 2016 U.S. Model Income Tax Convention recently released by the U.S. Treasury Department would reduce potential tax benefits with respect to LivaNova and its affiliates if the Section 7874 Percentage were calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80% by imposing full withholding taxes on payments pursuant to certain financing structures, distributions from U.S. subsidiaries and payments pursuant to certain licensing arrangements. Thus, the tax laws in the United States, the 47U.K. and other countries in which LivaNova and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect LivaNova.LivaNova may not qualify for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the U.K. and the United States. LivaNova believes that it operates in a manner such that it is eligible for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the U.K. and the United States. However, LivaNova’s ability to qualify for such benefits will depend upon the requirements contained in such treaty. The failure by LivaNova or its subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the U.K. and the United States could result in adverse tax consequences to LivaNova and its subsidiaries. The 2016 U.S. Model Income Tax Convention recently released by the U.S. Treasury Department would reduce potential tax benefits with respect to LivaNova and its affiliates if the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80% by imposing full withholding taxes on payments pursuant to certain financing structures, distributions from U.S. subsidiaries and payments pursuant to certain licensing arrangements. If the proposed treaty is enacted with applicability to LivaNova or its affiliates, it would result in material reductions in the benefit of qualifying for a treaty. See also the section entitled “Future changes to U.S. and foreign tax laws could adversely affect LivaNova.” LivaNova believes that it operates so as to be treated exclusively as a resident of the U.K. for tax purposes, but the relevant tax authorities may treat it as also being a resident of another jurisdiction for tax purposes.LivaNova is a company incorporated in the U.K. Current U.K. law provides that LivaNova will be regarded as being a U.K. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (a) it is concurrently resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the U.K. and (b) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. Based upon LivaNova’s management and organizational structure, LivaNova believes that it should be regarded as resident exclusively in the U.K. from its incorporation for tax purposes. However, because this analysis is highly factual and may depend on future changes in LivaNova’s management and organizational structure, there can be no assurance regarding the final determination of LivaNova’s tax residence. Should LivaNova be treated as resident in a country or jurisdiction other than the U.K., it could be subject to taxation in that country or jurisdiction on its worldwide income and may be required to comply with a number of material and formal tax obligations, including withholding tax and/or reporting obligations provided under the relevant tax law, which could result in additional costs and expenses for LivaNova, as well as its shareholders, lenders and/or bondholders. The effective tax rate that will apply to LivaNova is uncertain and may vary from expectations. No assurances can be given as to what LivaNova’s worldwide effective corporate tax rate will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where it operates. LivaNova’s actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectations and that variance may be material. Additionally, tax laws or their implementation and applicable tax authority practices could change in the future. English law requires that LivaNova meet certain additional financial requirements before it declares dividends or repurchases shares following the Mergers. Under English law, LivaNova is only able to declare dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares out of “distributable profits”. “Distributable profits” are a company’s accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. In addition, LivaNova, as a public company, may only make a distribution if the amount of its net assets is not less than the aggregate of its called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and if, and to the extent that, the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate total. Neither the capitalization nor the reduction will impact shareholders’ relative interests in the capital of LivaNova. The LivaNova articles permits LivaNova, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. The dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the directors. The directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. When recommending or declaring 48the payment of a dividend, the directors shall be required under English law to comply with their duties, including considering LivaNova’s future financial requirements.The LivaNova articles provide that the courts of England and Wales have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any and all disputes brought by a LivaNova shareholder (whether in its own name or in the name of LivaNova) against LivaNova and/or the LivaNova board and/or any of the directors of LivaNova.The LivaNova articles provide that the courts of England and Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any and all disputes brought by a member in that member’s capacity (whether in its own name or in the name of LivaNova) as such against LivaNova and/or the LivaNova board and/or any of the directors of LivaNova individually or collectively in connection with the LivaNova articles. Under English law, the proper claimant for wrongs committed against LivaNova, including by our directors, is considered to be LivaNova itself. Also, English law only permits a shareholder to initiate a lawsuit on behalf of a company such as LivaNova in limited circumstances, and requires court permission to do so.Transfers of LivaNova ordinary shares may be subject to U.K. stamp duty or U.K. stamp duty reserve tax (“SDRT”). U.K. stamp duty and/or SDRT are imposed in the U.K. on certain transfers of or agreements to transfer chargeable securities (which include shares in companies incorporated in the U.K.) at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer. Certain issues or transfers of shares to depositaries or into clearance services, as discussed below, are charged at a higher rate of 1.5%. Transfers of shares or agreements to transfer shares held in book entry form through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (“DTC”) should not be subject to U.K. stamp duty or SDRT in the U.K. A transfer of title in the shares or an agreement to transfer the shares from within the DTC system out of DTC and any subsequent transfers or agreements to transfer that occur entirely outside the DTC system, including repurchase by LivaNova, will generally be subject to U.K. stamp duty or SDRT at a rate of 0.5% of any consideration, which is payable by the transferee of the shares. Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped by Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”)) before the transfer can be registered in the books of LivaNova. If such shares are redeposited into the DTC system, the redeposit will attract U.K. stamp duty or SDRT at the higher 1.5% rate. LivaNova has put in place arrangements to require that shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of the shares has first delivered the shares to a depository specified by LivaNova so that U.K. stamp duty or SDRT may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depository. Before the transfer can be registered in the books of LivaNova, the transferor will also be required to put the depository in funds to settle the applicable U.K. stamp duty or SDRT, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares. In HMRC’s most recent guidance published on July 23, 2014, in response to the decisions in certain recent cases, HMRC has confirmed that it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% U.K. stamp duty or SDRT charge when new shares of companies incorporated in the U.K. are first issued to a clearance service (or its nominee) or depositary (or its nominee or agent) anywhere in the world or are transferred to such an entity anywhere in the world as an integral part of an issue of share capital. Accordingly, it is not currently expected that U.K. stamp duty and/or SDRT would be imposed under current U.K. tax law and HMRC practice on a future issue of shares by LivaNova. However, it is possible that the U.K. government may change the relevant law in response to the cases referenced above, and that this may have a material effect on the cost of share issues by LivaNova and potentially on the cost of dealing in LivaNova shares. If LivaNova ordinary shares are not eligible for deposit and clearing within the facilities of DTC, then transactions in its securities may be disrupted. The facilities of DTC are a widely-used mechanism that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the DTC system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. LivaNova ordinary shares are at present, subject to certain conditions, generally eligible for deposit and clearing within the DTC system. However, DTC generally has discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for LivaNova ordinary shares. If DTC determines at any time that LivaNova ordinary shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then LivaNova believes that its ordinary shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange and trading in LivaNova ordinary shares would be disrupted. While LivaNova would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve the listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of LivaNova ordinary shares. LivaNova has also put in place certain depositary arrangements to give holders of LivaNova ordinary shares the option to settle and pay for interests in LivaNova ordinary shares through CREST. CREST is the system for the electronic settlement of trades 49in securities operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited. CREST allows securities to be transferred from one CREST account to another without the need to use share certificates or written instruments of transfer. Under the current depositary arrangements put in place by LivaNova, settlement of LivaNova ordinary shares in CREST takes place through domestic depositary interests (“DDIs”) issued by Computershare Investor Services PLC acting as depositary. The underlying LivaNova ordinary shares remain in the DTC system in the participant account of a Computershare affiliate and Computershare Investor Services PLC issues the DDIs representing such LivaNova ordinary shares that settle through CREST on a one-for-one basis. LivaNova ordinary shares themselves are not enabled for direct settlement through CREST. Transfers of DDIs representing underlying LivaNova ordinary shares through CREST are generally liable to SDRT, rather than U.K. stamp duty, at the 0.5% rate. CREST is required to collect SDRT on relevant transactions settled within the CREST system. LivaNova has received confirmation from HMRC that the issue and deposit into CREST, and any subsequent cancellation, of DDIs representing underlying LivaNova ordinary shares should not give rise to any liability to U.K. stamp duty or SDRT.50Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 