Item 1A. Risk Factors. Like all financial companies, Camco’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. The enactment of recent legislation may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of EESA, the Treasury established the Troubled Assets Relief Program, including the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Dramatic declines in the housing market beginning in the latter half of 2007, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Camco’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit Camco’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect the Camco’s ability to market our products and services. • Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that Camco will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price for Camco’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; 17 Table of Contents • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, principally loans and investment securities, and (ii) interest expense on deposit accounts and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the volume of origination of loans for sale and consequently the volume of fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down the value of our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or that the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings associations, savings banks, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, other lenders and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to prior FRB approval. In March 2009, we entered into a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) with the FRB that prohibits us from paying dividends without the FRB’s approval. We do not know how long this restriction will remain in place. Even if we are permitted to pay a dividend, we are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by our subsidiaries is 18 Table of Contents subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by Camco will be dependent, in large part, on our subsidiaries’ ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Two of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, nor that we will not recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions. Camco or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Camco to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Camco, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm Camco’s reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Camco may not be able to obtain new or difference insurance coverage, or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. Camco’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover future losses. Camco maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable, inherent and incurred loan losses at each balance sheet date based on our analysis of the loan portfolio. Although we increased the allowance for loan losses substantially during 2008, there can be no assurance on the timing or amount of actual loan losses or that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Camco’s allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require 19 Table of Contents management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Camco’s pretax and net income. A material breach in Camco’s security systems may have a significant effect on Camco’s business and reputation. Camco collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Camco and third party service providers. Camco has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Camco also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 