Item 1A. Risk Factors. Like all financial companies, Camco’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, principally loans and investment securities, and (ii) interest expense on deposit accounts and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. 15 Table of Contents Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or that the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings associations, savings banks, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, other lenders and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, not to benefit our stockholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this 10-K under the heading “Regulation.” Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by Camco will be dependent, in large part, on our subsidiaries’ ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Two of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, nor that we will not recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. 16 Table of Contents Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. We face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions in the future and we may engage in de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which would dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests. Regulatory agencies may not approve our application to acquire other financial institutions, branches or other lines of business, which would limit our growth opportunities. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions. Camco or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Camco to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Camco, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm Camco’s reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Camco may not be able to obtain new or difference insurance coverage, or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. Camco’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover future losses. Camco maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable, inherent and incurred loan losses at each balance sheet date based on our analysis of the loan portfolio. There can be no assurance on the timing or amount of actual loan losses or that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Camco’s allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Camco’s pretax and net income. A material breach in Camco’s security systems may have a significant effect on Camco’s business and reputation. Camco collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Camco and third party service providers. Camco has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Camco also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 