Item 1A. Risk Factors. Like all financial companies, Camco’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Camco expects to continue to be subject to restrictions and conditions of the MOU, Written Agreement and 2012 Consent Order. As a result, Camco has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expenses that will negatively affect our results of operations. Camco and the Bank continue to be under the conditions of the MOU, FRB Written Agreement and 2012 Consent Order as a result of various regulatory concerns as of December 31, 2011. Camco has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with these directives and will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with their terms. Although Camco does not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the directives could have a materially adverse impact on us in the future. Our capital levels currently do not comply with the higher capital requirements required by the 2012 Consent Order. Under the 2012 Consent Order, the FDIC and the Division required the Bank to raise its Tier I leverage capital to 9% by March 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank needed approximately $20.6 million in additional capital based on assets at such date to meet this requirement. The Corporation currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank. Camco is considering various strategies to help us achieve the required capital level, but there is no assurance that any capital raising strategy can be completed successfully in the near future. Moreover, any further increases to our allowance for loan losses, additional deterioration of our real estate owned portfolio and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital level directed by the FDIC and the Division. Based on our failure to meet the required capital level, the FDIC or the Division could take additional enforcement action against us. In addition to the 2012 Consent Order, the FRB Written Agreement and the MOU, governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. In addition to the requirements of the 2012 Consent Order, the FRB written agreement and the MOU, Camco is subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products Camco may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including Camco and Advantage, do business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act changes the assessment base for federal deposit insurance premiums by modifying the deposit insurance assessment base calculation to equal a depository institution’s consolidated assets less tangible capital and permanently increases the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a new agency empowered to promulgate new and revise existing consumer protection regulations which may limit certain consumer fees or otherwise significantly change fee practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier I capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also repeals the federal prohibition 17 on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. Other significant changes from provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, but are not limited to: (i) changes to rules relating to debit card interchange fees; (ii) new comprehensive regulation of the over-the counter derivatives market; (iii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies; (iv) restrictions on the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds; and (v) the implementation of a number of new corporate governance provisions, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, new executive compensation disclosure requirements and considerations regarding the independence of compensation advisors. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not been implemented and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. Camco is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on Camco cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our operations, all of which may have a material adverse effect on Camco’s operating results and financial condition. Camco may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in Southeastern Ohio with the knowledge and experience required to successfully implement our recovery plan. At this time, new senior executives are required to be approved by our regulators. Suitable candidates for positions may decline to consider employment with the Corporation given its financial condition and the current regulatory environment. In addition, it may be difficult for us to offer compensation packages that would be sufficient to convince candidates that are acceptable to our regulators and meet our requirements to agree to become our employee and/or relocate. Our financial condition and the existing uncertainties may result in existing employees seeking positions at other companies where these issues are not present. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If Camco is not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which Camco requires to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our recovery plan could be affected. Camco has a relatively high percentage of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, our non-performing loans totaled $24.9 million, representing 3.8% of total loans and 3.2% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $40.6 million, representing 6.2% of total loans and 5.3% of total assets. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was $14.5 million, representing 58.3% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, Camco may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Camco makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, Camco reviews loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. Since 2008, our loan quality has been negatively impacted by deteriorating conditions within the commercial real estate market and economy as a whole, which has caused declines in commercial real estate values and deterioration in financial condition of various commercial borrowers. Additionally, increases in delinquent real estate mortgage loans have occurred as a result of deteriorating economic conditions and a decline in the housing market across our geographic footprint that reflected declining home prices and increasing inventories of houses for sale. These conditions have led Camco to downgrade the loan quality ratings on various commercial real estate loans through its normal loan review process. In addition, several impaired loans have become under-collateralized due to reductions in the estimated net realizable fair value of the underlying collateral. As a result, Camco’s provision for loans losses, net charge-offs and nonperforming loans in recent quarters have continued to be higher than historical levels. The additional provisions for loan losses in this period were largely attributed to the aforementioned issues. Bank regulators periodically review Advantage’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s results of operations and financial condition. 18 Camco may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Camco and Advantage are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. Currently, Advantage is not in compliance with the Tier 1 capital requirement required by the 2012 Consent Order. As a result, Camco must raise additional capital. Camco has engaged an investment banking firm and is in the process of developing a plan to raise additional capital, the Corporation was never in compliance with the 2009 Cease and Desist Order’s capital directive either. The financial condition of the Bank and the Corporation has improved slightly since that time, and, on December 31, 2011, the Corporation’s shareholders’ equity totaled $45.6 million. Camco’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on its financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of its control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Camco can raise additional capital on terms it deems acceptable. If Camco cannot raise additional capital, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and may result in further enforcement action by the FRB, FDIC or Division, including a potential federal conservatorship or receivership of the Bank, or a requirement that Camco sell or transfer its assets or take other action which would likely result in a significant loss of the value of Camco’s ownership interest in the Bank and a significant loss of the value of the shares held by Camco’s stockholders. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on corporate checking accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could have commenced offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Camco does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Camco’s interest expense will increase and its net interest margin will decrease if Camco begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s business, financial condition and results of operation. Camco is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, Camco and its subsidiaries, are routinely subject to examinations from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments made and the businesses in which Camco has engaged. Recently, federal and state tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Currently, Camco’s 2009 tax year is being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. If any challenges are made and are not resolved in Camco’s favor, it could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operations. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations have been, and in future periods will continue to be significantly impacted by the economy in Ohio, and to a lesser extent, other markets Camco is exposed to, including Kentucky and West Virginia. Deterioration of the economic environment Camco is exposed to, including a continued decline or worsening declines in the real estate market and single-family home re-sales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. Over the past three years, material declines in the value of the real estate assets securing many of our commercial real estate loans has led to significant credit losses in this portfolio. Because of our high concentration of loans secured by real estate (the majority of which were originated several years ago), it is possible that Camco will continue to experience some level of credit losses and high provisions even if the overall real estate market stabilizes or improves due to the continuing uncertainty surrounding many of the specific real estate assets securing our loans and the weakened financial condition of some of our commercial real estate borrowers and guarantors. 19 The same deterioration noted above can affect our real estate owned portfolio and if the economic environment continues to decline or worsen it could significantly impair the value of the portfolio and our ability to sell the properties in a timely manner. Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. The continued deteriorating economic conditions in our markets may negatively affect the Corporation. Falling home prices and increasing foreclosures; unemployment and underemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect Camco’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, Camco may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit Camco’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect Camco’s ability to market our products and services. Volatility in the economy may negatively impact the fair value of our stock. The market price for Camco’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • our inability to pay cash dividends • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of other projects. 20 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, principally loans and investment securities, and (ii) interest expense on deposit accounts and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While Camco has taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. Camco originates loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the volume of origination of loans for sale and consequently the volume of fee income earned on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, Camco may need to write down the value of our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expenses and lower our earnings. The Corporation relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact its growth strategy and prospects. The Bank relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund its operations. The Corporation also has previously issued subordinated debentures to raise additional capital to fund its operations. Although the Corporation considers such sources of funds adequate for its current capital needs, the Corporation may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to the Corporation shareholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require the Corporation to pledge some of its assets and enter into covenants that would restrict its ability to incur further indebtedness. Additional financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Corporation or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to it. If additional financing sources are unavailable, not available on reasonable terms or the Corporation is unable to obtain any required regulatory approval for additional debt, the Corporation’s growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted. Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or that the value of the collateral securing loans may decrease. Camco extends credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. Camco attempts to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because Camco has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco operates in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if Camco is unable to compete effectively. In our market area, Camco encounters significant competition from other commercial banks, savings associations, savings banks, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, other lenders and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Camco does and may offer services that Camco does not or cannot provide. 21 Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to prior FRB approval. The MOU prohibits the Corporation from paying dividends without the FRB’s prior approval. Camco does not know how long this restriction will remain in place. Even if Camco is permitted to pay a dividend, Camco is dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends by our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Currently, Advantage is prohibited from paying any dividends to Camco without the prior approval of the FDIC and the Division. In addition, federal law generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter and or continue to be undercapitalized. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by Camco will be dependent, in large part, on our subsidiaries’ ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Camco records and reports our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, other real estate owned valuation and the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, Camco cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are higher than the provided allowance, nor that it will not recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control over or acquire us. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions. Camco or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Camco to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Camco, regardless of merit or eventual outcome may harm Camco’s reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Camco may not be able to obtain new or different insurance coverage, or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s operating results. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loans held for investment. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Corporation’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their 22 examination process, review the Corporation’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, the Corporation could need to increase its allowance for loan losses or regulators could require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and profitability. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. Camco has generated net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. Camco generally is able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and the Treasury regulations caused in increase in their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these shareholders over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carry forwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation’s stock on the date of the ownership, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carry forwards. Camco does not anticipate that a planned recapitalization, rights offering will cause an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382. In order to reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our common shares will result in an ownership change, Camco could adopt a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, which provides an economic disincentive for any person or group to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our common shares. However, Camco cannot ensure that our ability to use our NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a result, Camco could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if our NOLs were available to reduce our federal income taxes without restriction. Camco is currently in process of an Internal Revenue Service audit for tax year 2009, which has a potential risk for financial statement impact. A material breach in Camco’s security systems may have a significant effect on Camco’s business and reputation. Camco collects processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Camco and third party service providers. Camco has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Camco also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 23 