Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as may, might, could, would, believe, expect, intend, plan, seek, anticipate, estimate, project or continue or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document regarding our outlook, financial position and results of operation, liquidity, capital resources and interest rate sensitivity are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to: • anticipated changes in industry conditions created by state and federal legislation and regulations; • anticipated changes in general interest rates and the impact of future interest rate changes on our profitability, capital adequacy and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; • retention of our existing customer base and our ability to attract new customers; • the development of new products and services and their success in the marketplace; • the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; and, • statements regarding our anticipated loan and deposit account growth, expense levels, liquidity and capital resources and projections of earnings. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance such expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements included herein include, but are not limited to: • competition in the industry and markets in which we operate; • levels of non-performing assets; • changes in general interest rates; • loan demand; • rapid changes in technology affecting the financial services industry; • real estate values; • changes in government regulation; and • general economic and business conditions. Overview Like all financial companies, Camco’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Camco expects to continue to be subject to restrictions and conditions of the FRB Written Agreement and 2012 Consent Order. As a result, Camco has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expenses that will negatively affect our results of operations. Camco and the Bank continue to be under the conditions of the FRB Written Agreement and 2012 Consent Order as a result of various regulatory concerns as of December 31, 2012. Camco has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with these directives and will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with their terms. Although Camco does not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the directives could have a materially adverse impact on us in the future. 15 Our Tier 1 leverage capital levels currently do not comply with the higher capital requirements required by the 2012 Consent Order. Under the 2012 Consent Order, the FDIC and the Division required the Bank to raise its Tier I leverage capital to 9% by March 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank needed approximately $6.2 million in additional capital based on assets at such date to meet this requirement. The Corporation currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank. Camco is considering various strategies to help us achieve the required capital level, but there is no assurance that any capital raising strategy can be completed successfully in the near future. Moreover, any further increases to our allowance for loan losses, additional deterioration of our real estate owned portfolio and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital level directed by the FDIC and the Division. Based on our failure to meet the required capital level, the FDIC or the Division could take additional enforcement action against us. In addition to the 2012 Consent Order, the FRB Written Agreement, governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. In addition to the requirements of the 2012 Consent Order, the Written Agreement, Camco is subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products Camco may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion. Although some of the regulations have been adopted, many still have not, and the effect they will have on Camco and its subsidiaries will not be known for years. Among the provisions already implemented that have or may have an effect on Camco are the following: • the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”)has been formed, which has broad powers to adopt and enforce consumer protection regulations; • the federal law prohibiting the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was eliminated effective July 21, 2011; • the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer was permanently increased to $250,000, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited insurance through December 31, 2012; • the assessment base for determining deposit insurance premiums has been expanded from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity; • public companies in all industries are now required to provide stockholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation; and • the FRB has imposed on financial institutions with assets of $10 billion or more a cap on the debit card interchange fees the financial institutions may charge. Although the cap is not applicable to Advantage, it may have an adverse effect on Advantage as the debit cards issued by Advantage and other smaller banks, which have higher interchange fees, may become less competitive. Additional provisions not yet implemented that may have an effect on Camco are the following: • new capital regulations for bank holding companies will be adopted, which may impose stricter requirements; and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 will no longer constitute Tier I capital; and • new corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries will require other new compensation practices and disclosure requirements, including requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, to consider the independence of compensation advisors and to make additional disclosures in proxy statements with respect to compensation matters. 16 As many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been implemented and will require interpretation and rule making, the ultimate effect on Camco cannot yet be determined. However, the implementation of certain provisions have already increased compliance costs and the implementation of future provisions will likely increase both compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possibly restricting the operations of Camco. Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have significant impacts throughout the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, which is complex and broad in scope, established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the authority and duties of the federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, implements certain corporate governance requirements for all public companies including financial institutions with regard to executive compensation, proxy access by stockholders, and certain whistleblower provisions, and restricts certain proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks and their affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the issuance of many implementing regulations which will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general. With the appointment of a director for the CFPB in January 2012, the CFPB began to exercise its full authority under the Dodd- Frank Act. For example, the CFPB completed its first public enforcement actions regarding unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with marketing, sales and operation of certain add-on products offered in connection with credit cards. Furthermore, in 2012 the CFPB issued its first major regulation, which covers remittance transfers (international wire transfers) by consumers, which will take effect later in 2013. In mid-January 2013, the CFPB issued eight final regulations governing consumer mortgage lending. The first of these rules was issued on January 10, 2013, and included the ability to repay and qualified mortgage rule. This rule will impose additional requirements on lenders, including rules designed to require lenders to ensure borrowers’ ability to repay their mortgage. The same day, the CFPB also finalized a rule on escrow accounts for high-cost mortgages and a rule expanding the scope of the high-cost mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mortgage servicing, which will take effect on January 10, 2014. On January 18, 2013, the CFPB issued a final appraisal rule under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and six agencies including the CFPB, FRB, OCC, and FDIC, issued an interagency rule on appraisals for higher-priced mortgage loans. A final rule on loan originator compensation was released on January 20, 2013, and the industry expects a final rule on integrated mortgage disclosures within the next year. We are evaluating these rules to determine their impact on the Bank. We must comply with anti-money laundering and customer privacy regulations, as well as corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements. The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The statute and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to: • provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and practices, • inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties, and • give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of such information to nonaffiliated third parties. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us. In addition to a requirement that chief executive officers and chief financial officers certify financial statements in writing, the statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the composition and activities of audit committees, disclosures relating to corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. 17 Camco may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. There are a limited number of qualified persons in Southeastern Ohio with the knowledge and experience required to successfully implement our recovery plan. At this time, new senior executives are required to be approved by our regulators. Suitable candidates for positions may decline to consider employment with the Corporation given its financial condition and the current regulatory environment. In addition, it may be difficult for us to offer compensation packages that would be sufficient to convince candidates that are acceptable to our regulators and meet our requirements to agree to become our employee and/or relocate. Our financial condition and the existing uncertainties may result in existing employees seeking positions at other companies where these issues are not present. The unexpected loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of a loss of their skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. If Camco is not able to promptly recruit qualified personnel, which Camco requires to conduct our operations, our business and our ability to successfully implement our recovery plan could be affected. Camco has a relatively high percentage of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, profitability could be adversely affected. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s operating results. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loans held for investment. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Corporation’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2012, our non-performing loans totaled $19.6 million, representing 3.4% of total loans and 2.6% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $30.0 million, representing 5.1% of total loans and 3.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was $12.1 million, representing 62.0% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, Camco may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Camco makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, Camco reviews loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. From 2008 through 2010 our loan quality was negatively impacted by deteriorating conditions within the commercial real estate market and economy as a whole, which caused declines in commercial real estate values and deterioration in financial condition of various commercial borrowers. Additionally, increases in delinquent real estate mortgage loans occurred as a result of deteriorating economic conditions and a decline in the housing market across our geographic footprint that reflected declining home prices and increasing inventories of houses for sale. These conditions led Camco to downgrade the loan quality ratings on various commercial real estate loans through its normal loan review process during those years. In addition, several impaired loans became under-collateralized due to reductions in the estimated net realizable fair value of the underlying collateral. As a result, Camco’s provision for loans losses, net charge-offs and nonperforming loans in preceding years continued to be higher than historical levels. The additional provisions for loan losses in this period were largely attributed to the aforementioned issues. In 2011 and 2012, the credit trends improved and charge offs slowed; however, changes in economic conditions or in the financial situations of our borrowers could reverse this trend. Further, federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Corporation’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, the Corporation could need to increase its allowance for loan losses or regulators could require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and profitability. Camco may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Camco and Advantage are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. Although the financial condition of the Bank and the Corporation has improved, currently, Advantage is not in compliance with the Tier 1 capital requirement required by the 2012 Consent Order. The Corporation may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to the Corporation’s stockholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require the Corporation to pledge some of its assets and enter into covenants that would restrict its ability to incur further indebtedness. Camco’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on its financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of its control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Camco can raise additional capital on terms it deems acceptable. If Camco cannot raise additional capital, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, growth strategy and future prospects, and may result in further enforcement action by the FRB, FDIC or Division, including a potential federal conservatorship or receivership of the Bank, or a requirement that Camco sell or transfer its assets or take other action which would likely result in a significant loss of the value of Camco’s ownership interest in the Bank and a significant loss of the value of the shares held by Camco’s stockholders. 18 Camco is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, Camco and the Bank are, routinely subject to examinations from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments made and the businesses in which Camco has engaged. Recently, federal and state tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Income tax returns are subject to audit by the IRS. Income tax expense for current and prior periods is subject to adjustment based upon the outcome of such audits. During 2011, the IRS began an examination of the Corporation’s tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2009. The examination is near completion. The IRS has taken the position that the Corporation took bad debt deductions prematurely. The Corporation disagrees. The matter has not been resolved at the examination level, therefore, the Corporation has contested the matter at the IRS Office of Appeals. Management believes it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be successful in the appeals process. If the IRS prevails, the Corporation may be required to repay approximately $1.57 million of tax refunds it had received as a result of a carryback of a net operating loss and the Corporation will increase its net operating loss tax carry forward by the same amount as the disallowed deduction. The Corporation has a 100% valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset. In the event that the Corporation does not prevail on appeals and the deferred tax asset has a 100% valuation allowance, the Corporation will be required to take a charge of income tax expense in the amount of $1.57 million plus assessed statutory interest. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and continued deterioration in the real estate market may result in additional losses and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations have been, and in future periods will continue to be significantly impacted by the economy in Ohio, and to a lesser extent, other markets Camco is exposed to, including Kentucky and West Virginia. Deterioration of the economic environment Camco is exposed to, including a continued decline or worsening declines in the real estate market and single-family home re-sales or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. Over the past several years, material declines in the value of the real estate assets securing many of our commercial real estate loans has led to significant credit losses in this portfolio. Because of our high concentration of loans secured by real estate it is possible that Camco will continue to experience some level of credit losses and additional provisions even if the overall real estate market stabilizes or improves due to the continuing uncertainty surrounding many of the specific real estate assets securing our loans and the weakened financial condition of some of our commercial real estate borrowers and guarantors. The same deterioration noted above can affect our real estate owned portfolio and if the economic environment continues to decline or worsen it could significantly impair the value of the portfolio and our ability to sell the properties in a timely manner. Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. The continued deteriorating economic conditions in our markets may negatively affect the Corporation. Falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. 19 Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect Camco’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, Camco may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. Camco has generated net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. Camco generally is able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the stockholders (or specified groups of stockholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under Section 382 and the Treasury regulations caused in increase in their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carry forwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation’s stock on the date of the ownership, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carry forwards. Camco’s rights offering did not cause an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382. However, Camco cannot ensure that our ability to use our NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a result, Camco could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if our NOLs were available to reduce our federal income taxes without restriction. Volatility in the economy may negatively impact the fair value of our stock. The market price for Camco’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • our inability to pay cash dividends • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of other projects. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, principally loans and investment securities, and (ii) interest expense on deposit accounts and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While Camco has taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. Camco originates loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the volume of origination of loans for sale and consequently the volume of fee income earned on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. 20 In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this continues, Camco may need to write down the value of our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expenses and lower our earnings. Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or that the value of the collateral securing loans may decrease. Camco extends credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. Camco attempts to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because Camco has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco operates in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if Camco is unable to compete effectively. In our market area, Camco encounters significant competition from other commercial banks, savings associations, savings banks, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, other lenders and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Camco does and may offer services that Camco does not or cannot provide. Further, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, may adversely affect Camco’s ability to market our products and services. Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to prior FRB approval. The Written Agreement prohibits the Corporation from paying dividends without the FRB’s prior approval. Camco does not know how long this restriction will remain in place. Even if Camco is permitted to pay a dividend, Camco is dependent primarily upon the earnings of the Bank for funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends by the Bank is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Currently, Advantage is prohibited from paying any dividends to Camco without the prior approval of the FDIC and the Division. In addition, federal law generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by Camco will be dependent, in large part, on Advantage’s ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and its earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Camco records and reports our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, other real estate owned valuation and the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, Camco cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are higher than the provided allowance, nor that it will not recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. 21 Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control over or acquire us. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant operational risks which could lead to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators, and capital markets. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or outsiders, or operational errors by employees, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. These operational risks could lead to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators, and the capital markets. Moreover, negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and can also expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Financial institutions are under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business. The most significant cyber–attack risks that we face are e-fraud, denial of service, and loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from customer or our accounts. Loss can occur as a result of negative customer experience in the event of a successful denial of service attack that disrupts availability of our on-line banking services. The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us if successful. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely affecting our business and stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a Bank holding company, we are subject to regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and procedures. Such controls and procedures are modified, supplemented, and changed from time-to-time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external events and developments. Any failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal control environment could impact our ability to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact our business and stock price. Camco may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions. Camco or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Camco to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Camco, regardless of merit or eventual outcome may harm Camco’s reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Camco may not be able to obtain new or different insurance coverage, or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 