Item 1A. Risk Factors. Like all financial companies, Camco’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. We expect to continue to be subject to restrictions and conditions of Consent Order issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Consent Order. Failure to comply with the expected Consent Order could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. The Bank continues to be under the conditions of the Consent Order as a result of various regulatory concerns as of December 31, 2009. The management team has made significant progress on numerous directives provided in the consent order. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, the FDIC or the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties as well as further operating restrictions. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Consent Order, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the Consent Order. Although we do not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the Consent Order could have a materially adverse impact on us in the future. While we believe that we will be able to take actions that will result in the Consent Order being terminated in the future, such actions may not result in the FDIC and Ohio Division of Financial Institutions terminating the Consent Order. Our capital levels currently are not sufficient to achieve compliance with the higher capital requirements we must meet as defined in the Consent Order. Under the Consent Order the FDIC required the Bank to raise its tier I capital to 8% by February 28, 2010. While we did achieve the required capital position during 2009, we did not maintain the levels of capital required at February 28, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank would have needed approximately $8.2 million in additional capital based on assets at such date to meet this requirement. The Corporation currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank. We are considering various strategies to help us achieve the required capital level, but there is no assurance that any capital raising strategy can be completed successfully in the near future. Moreover, any further increases to our allowance for loan losses and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital level directed by the FDIC and Ohio Division of Financial Institutions. Based on our failure to meet the required capital level, the FDIC or the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions could take additional enforcement action against us. We have a relatively high percentage of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing loans totaled $42.5 million, representing 5.4% of total loans and 5.0% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $49.1 million, representing 7.3% of total loans and 5.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $16.1 million, representing 49.0% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. Since 2008, our loan quality has been negatively impacted by deteriorating conditions within the commercial real estate market and economy as a whole, which has caused declines in commercial real estate values and deterioration in financial condition of various commercial borrowers. Additionally, increases in delinquent real estate mortgage loans have occurred as a result of deteriorating economic conditions and a decline in the housing market across our geographic footprint that reflected declining home prices and increasing inventories of houses for sale. These conditions have led Camco to downgrade the loan quality ratings on various commercial real estate loans through its normal loan review process. In addition, several impaired loans have become under-collateralized due to reductions in the estimated net realizable fair value of the underlying collateral. As a result, 15 Table of Contents Camco’s provision for loans losses, net charge-offs and nonperforming loans in recent quarters have continued to be higher than historical levels. The additional provisions for loan losses in this period were largely attributed to the aforementioned issues. The Corporation and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Advantage Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC, our primary regulator, and by the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions. The Corporation also is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding Company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by regulatory authorities are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. The enactment of recent legislation may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of EESA, the Treasury established the Troubled Assets Relief Program, including the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the FRB, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009, and Advantage expects to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future because bank failures have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a special assessment, which totaled $436,000 for Advantage. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that requires insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. Advantage’s deposit insurance premiums will also increase because of the Consent Order. Additional bank failures may require additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, which would affect Advantage’s income. On November 12, 2009, Advantage received an exemption from prepaying its quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009, and all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. As a result, Advantage will continue to pay on a quarterly basis. Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. The continued deteriorating economic conditions in our markets may negatively affect the Corporation. The Midwest’s falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. 16 Table of Contents Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Camco’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit Camco’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect the Camco’s ability to market our products and services. Volatility in the economy may negatively impact the fair value of our stock. The market price for Camco’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • our inability to pay cash dividends • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, principally loans and investment securities, and (ii) interest expense on deposit accounts and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the volume of origination of loans for sale and consequently the volume of fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized. 17 Table of Contents In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down the value of our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. The Corporation relies, in part, on external financing to fund its operations and the availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact its growth strategy and prospects. The Bank relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund its operations. The Corporation also has previously issued subordinated debentures to raise additional capital to fund its operations. Although the Corporation considers such sources of funds adequate for its current capital needs, the Corporation may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to the Corporation shareholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require the Corporation to pledge some of its assets and enter into covenants that would restrict its ability to incur further indebtedness. Additional financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to the Corporation or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to it. If additional financing sources are unavailable, not available on reasonable terms or the Corporation is unable to obtain any required regulatory approval for additional debt, the Corporation’s growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted. Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or that the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such adverse changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings associations, savings banks, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, other lenders and with the issuers of commercial paper and other securities, such as shares in money market mutual funds. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Our ability to pay cash dividends is subject to prior FRB approval. In March 2009, we entered into a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) with the FRB that prohibits the Corporation from paying dividends without the FRB’s prior approval. We do not know how long this restriction will remain in place. Even if we are permitted to pay a dividend, we are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends by our subsidiaries is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Currently, Advantage is prohibited from paying any dividends to Camco without the prior approval of the FDIC and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future by Camco will be dependent, in large part, on our subsidiaries’ ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although, in the past, our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the 18 Table of Contents most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Two of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, nor that we will not recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Our organizational documents may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire us. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Camco may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions. Camco or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Camco to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Camco’s financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Camco, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm Camco’s reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Camco may not be able to obtain new or difference insurance coverage, or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s operating results. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loans held for investment. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Corporation’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Corporation’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While the Corporation believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, the Corporation could need to increase its allowance for loan losses or regulators could require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and profitability. A material breach in Camco’s security systems may have a significant effect on Camco’s business and reputation. Camco collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Camco and third party service providers. Camco has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Camco also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 