Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company’s business operations and financial condition. The company operates in a highly competitive industry The company operates in the highly competitive food industry and experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. A number of the company’s primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to the company’s marketplace efforts could result in the company reducing pricing, increasing capital, marketing or other expenditures, or losing market share. These changes may have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. The company’s long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives The company’s long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives. The company’s product introductions and product improvements, along with its other marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on new customer or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, the company must anticipate and react to these new trends and develop new products or processes to address them. While the company devotes significant resources to meeting this goal, the company may not be successful in developing new products or processes, or its new products or processes may not be accepted by customers or consumers. These results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. The company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology or other initiatives The company’s success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its ongoing supply chain, information technology and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient in the manufacture and distribution of its products, which is necessary in the company’s highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an interruption to the company’s sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service or accounting functions. Furthermore, the company has invested a significant amount of capital into a number of these initiatives, which may have been more efficiently used if the full cost savings or benefits are not realized. Finally, the company may not meet expected cost savings from publicly-announced restructuring programs. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. The company may be adversely impacted by the increased significance of some of its customers The loss of any of the company’s large customers, such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., for an extended period of time could adversely affect the company’s business or financial results. In addition, the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass market retailers continue to become larger. In such an environment, a large retail customer may attempt to increase its profitability by improving efficiency, lowering its costs or increasing promotional programs. If the company is unable to use its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these customer demands, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted. The company’s long-term results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw materials The raw materials used in the company’s business include tomato paste, beef, poultry, vegetables, metal containers, glass, paper, resin and energy. Many of these materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including product scarcity, commodity market speculation, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, import and export requirements and changes in government-sponsored agricultural programs. To the extent any of these factors result in an unforeseen increase in raw material prices, the company may not be able to offset such increases through productivity or price increases. In such case, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted. The company may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully identify and execute acquisitions and divestitures From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or divestitures. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon the company’s ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, Table of Contents PAGE 4 negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the company’s existing operations. In cases where acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully implemented or completed, the company’s business or financial results could be negatively impacted. The company’s long-term results may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions in the United States or other nations The company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food products. Because of its global reach, the company’s performance may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions in the United States as well as other nations. A change in any one or more of the following factors in the United States, or in other nations, could impact the company: currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, legal or regulatory requirements, tariffs, export and import restrictions or equity markets. The company may also be impacted by recession, political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters and terrorist acts in the United States or throughout the world. Any one of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. If the company’s food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, the company might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured The company may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled. The company may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes injury. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the company’s reputation and a loss of consumer confidence in the company’s food products, which could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 