D. Risk Factors Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other “forward looking statements”. Such forward looking statements include any projections or estimates made by our company and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements. An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report in evaluating our 5 Table of Contents company and our business before purchasing shares of our company’s common stock. Our business, operating and financial condition could be harmed due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. During our year ended December 31, 2005, we operated two business segments consisting of an industrial and engineering services business and a financial services and merchant banking business. As a result of a corporate reorganization of our company in January 2006, we reorganized our financial services and merchant banking business in a series of internal corporate restructuring transactions. Following the reorganization, Mass Financial Corp., formerly named Sutton Park International Limited, held all of our company’s financial services and merchant banking business except for MFC Merchant Bank S.A. (and its Swiss affiliates) and our royalty interest in an iron ore mine. On January 31, 2006, we distributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Mass Financial, respecting our financial services and merchant banking business, to our shareholders. Consequently, with the exception of certain activities carried on by MFC Merchant Bank and our royalty interest in an iron ore mine, our risk factors in this annual report relate solely to our business as an industrial and engineering services business. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industrial and Engineering Business A downturn in the economy could reduce the demand for our industrial and engineering services and therefore may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The industrial and engineering services industry is cyclical in nature. It tends to reflect and be amplified by general economic conditions, both domestically and abroad. Historically, in periods of recession or periods of minimal economic growth, the operations underlying industrial and engineering companies have been adversely affected. Certain end-use markets for clinker, cement and coal, such as the industrial and commercial sectors, experience demand cycles that are highly correlated to the general economic environment, which is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control. A recession or a slowing of the global economy, or a decrease in commercial and industrial demand for our services and products, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, during recessions or periods of slow growth, the construction industries typically experience major cutbacks in production which may result in decreased demand for our services. Because we generally have high fixed costs, our profitability is significantly affected by decreased output and decreases in requests for the design and construction of plants or equipment that produce or process clinker, cement, clean coal and various minerals. Reduced demand and pricing pressures will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We not able to predict the timing, extent and duration of the economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. Any significant disruption of our operations may harm our business reputation and cause an adverse effect on our financial results. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as natural disasters, leading to interruptions at any of our facilities or at any of the facilities or areas at which we are providing services, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries, customers that are forced to reschedule their own production due to such delays could pursue financial claims against us. We may incur costs to correct any of these events, in addition to facing claims from customers or third parties dependent upon the delivery of our services or products. Further, if any of these events occur and we are forced to delay the delivery of our services, then our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, potentially resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies may not cover all of our losses and we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, loss of customers and suffer substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are exposed to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our global operations, which may negatively effect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In conducting our business in major markets around the world, we are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, business, political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in other countries. We operate on a global basis, in both developed and underdeveloped countries. In addition to the 6 Table of Contents business risks inherent in developing a relationship with a newly emerging market, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labour problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as expropriation, controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or offer our services. We also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local currency received or held by us in their countries or to take those currencies out of those countries. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Transactions with parties in countries designated by the United States State Department as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the United States and other countries to avoid doing business with us or investing in our shares. We currently engage and may continue to engage in business with parties in certain countries that the United States State Department has designated as state sponsors of terrorism. United States law generally prohibits United States persons from doing business with such countries. In the case of these designated countries, there are prohibitions on certain activities and transactions, and penalties for violation of these prohibitions include criminal and civil fines and imprisonment. We are a company incorporated in British Columbia, Canada and, to our knowledge, our activities with respect to these countries have not involved any United States person in either a managerial or operational role. While we seek to comply with applicable legal requirements in our dealings in these countries, it is possible that our company or persons employed by us could be found to be subject to sanctions or other penalties under this legislation in connection with the activities in these countries. We are aware, through press reports and other means, of initiatives by governmental entities in the United States and by United States institutions such as universities and pension funds, to adopt laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with these countries. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers or as investors in our shares. In addition, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries. Such a result may have adverse effects on our business. The cost of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be significantly affected by changes in the prices of and demand for cement, minerals, coal and other related products and the supply of materials necessary to make clinker and cement. The prices and demand for these products and materials can fluctuate widely as a result of various factors beyond our control such as supply and demand, exchange rates, inflation, changes in global economics, and political, social and other factors. Any substantial increases in the cost of such materials, or the transportation and/or availability of such materials, could adversely affect the demand for cement, minerals, coal and other related products. If the demand for cement, minerals, coal and other related products decreases, then the demand for our industrial and engineering services will decrease, which will in turn adversely impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability, therefore, to maintain or increase our revenues may be adversely affected by a sustained material reduction in the demand or price for such products and materials. We are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously evolve our existing products and services and introduce new products and services to meet customers’ needs. Our designs and products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate our services and products on the basis of a number of factors, including quality, price competitiveness, technical expertise and development capability, innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, operational flexibility, customer service, and overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing requirements and specifications with respect to these and 7 Table of Contents other criteria. There can be no assurance that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new designs or products that may be necessary to remain competitive within the industrial and engineering services business. Our competitors include firms traditionally engaged in the industrial and engineering services business. We conduct our business in a global environment that is highly competitive and unpredictable. Our primary competitors are international companies with greater resources, capital and access to information than us. Our competition includes other entities who provide industrial and process engineering services and/or products related to cement technology, mineral processing and coal technology, including feasibility studies, raw material testing, basic and detail plant and equipment engineering, financing concepts, construction and commissioning, and personnel training. Increased competition may lead to a decline in the demand for our industrial and engineering services. Our risk management strategies leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks which could impact our risk management strategies in the future and could negatively affect our results of operation and financial condition. We use a variety of instruments and strategies to manage exposure to various types of risks. For example, we use derivative foreign exchange contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Unexpected market developments may affect our risk management strategies and unanticipated developments could impact our risk management strategies in the future. A rise in inflation may negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inflation may result in increases in our expenses related to the provision of industrial and engineering services, and which may not be readily recoverable in the price of such services provided to our clients. Increases in inflation in overseas countries could result in a reduction in our revenues when reported in Canadian currency. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects on capital markets, it may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. We are exposed to legal risks in our business which are often difficult to assess or quantify. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against any litigation. We are exposed to legal risks in our business, including warranty claims that may be made in connection with warranties that we provide to our customers in connection with the industrial and engineering products and services that we provide. If we receive a significant number of warranty claims, then our resulting warranty costs could be substantial and we could incur significant legal expenses evaluating or disputing such claims. Some of our subsidiaries operating in the industrial and engineering services business are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. Some of our employees of our operating subsidiaries are represented by labour unions under collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to protect the confidentiality or unique aspects of our technology, which would reduce our competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of patents and patent applications, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our technology, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the products, processes or plants that we design or build or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and products is difficult and expensive. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or intellectual property. If our technology is copied by unauthorized parties, the technology violates the intellectual property of others or our competitors independently develop competing technology, we may lose existing customers and our business may suffer. 8 Table of Contents General Risks Faced by Our Company Investors’ interests will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. Our constating documents authorize the issuance of common shares and class A preferred shares. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership of all other shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. Moreover, we may seek authorization to increase the number of our authorized shares. Our Articles contain indemnification provisions and we have entered into agreements indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our Articles contain indemnification provisions and we have entered into agreements with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment, actually and reasonably incurred by them, and an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment in a civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding to which they are made a party by reason of being or having been a director or officer of our company. Such limitations on liability may reduce the likelihood of litigation against our officers and directors and may discourage or deter our shareholders from suing our officers and directors based upon breaches of their duties to our company, though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our shareholders. Certain factors may inhibit, delay or prevent a takeover of our company which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our charter documents and the corporate legislation which govern our company may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that shareholders may consider favourable. Such provisions include authorizing the issuance by our board of directors of preferred stock in series, providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms and limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, the Investment Canada Act imposes certain limitations on the rights of non-Canadians to acquire our common shares, although it is highly unlikely that this will apply. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to interest rates. An increase in market interest rates may decrease the fair value of our fixed interest rate financial instrument assets and a decrease in market interest rates may decrease the fair value of our fixed interest rate financial instrument liabilities, thereby resulting in a reduction in the fair value of our equity. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk” for additional information with respect to our exposure to interest rate risk. Similarly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the Canadian dollar. A depreciation of such currencies against the Canadian dollar will decrease the fair value of our financial instrument assets denominated in such currencies and an appreciation of such currencies against the Canadian dollar will increase the fair value of our financial instrument liabilities denominated in such currencies, thereby resulting in a reduction in our equity. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” for additional information with respect to our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. 