D. Risk Factors Certain statements in this annual report on Form 20-F are forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s expectations regarding our future growth, results of operations, performance, and business prospects 4 Table of Contents and opportunities. Forward-looking statements consist of statements that are not purely historical, including any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations, projections or intentions regarding the future. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements. An investment in our common shares involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report on Form 20-F in evaluating our company and our business before purchasing our common shares. Our business, operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by one or more of the following risks. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period. We expect our business to experience in the future significant periodic variations in its revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our merchant banking revenues are often earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In many cases, we may receive little or no payment for engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. Additionally, through our merchant banking business, we seek to acquire undervalued assets where we can use our experience and management to realize upon the value. Often we will hold or build upon these assets over time and the timing of its realization is not predictable. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by commodities price volatility. The majority of our revenue from our commodities and resources business is derived from the sale of commodities, including metals, plastics and other materials. As a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these commodities. In addition, our revenues from our royalty business and our other iron ore interests are directly connected to the price of iron ore. There are many factors influencing the price of metals, plastics and other commodities, including expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. Changes in the prices of iron ore, plastics, metals and other commodities may adversely affect our operating results. We have not engaged in material hedging transactions or alternative measures to manage possible price fluctuations. A weak global economy can adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings, and it may be materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Global financial markets experienced extreme and unprecedented disruption in the latter part of 2008, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Although financial markets stabilized and signs of a global economic recovery began to emerge in the latter part of 2009 and continued through 2010, the economic environment, particularly in the United States and Europe, continues to be generally weak and we remain exposed to a number of risks associated with weak or adverse economic conditions. Market deterioration and weakness can result in a material decline in the number and size of the transactions that we execute for our own account and for our clients and to a corresponding decline in our revenues. Market weakness can further result in losses to the extent that we own assets in such market. 5 Table of Contents The nature of the recovery in the global economy in general remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future. The commodities and resources and merchant banking businesses are highly competitive. All aspects of the commodities and resources and merchant banking businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors include merchant and investment banks, brokerage firms, commercial banks, private equity firms, hedge funds, financial advisory firms and natural resource and mineral royalty companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital and resources, including access to commodities supply, than we do. We believe that the principal factors affecting competition in our business include transaction execution, our products and services, client relationships, reputation, innovations, credit worthiness and price. We have experienced price competition in some of our trading business. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support their business with other financial services such as commercial lending in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The operation of the Wabush iron ore mine is generally determined by a third party owner and we have no decision making power as to how the property is operated. In addition, we have no or very limited access to technical or geological data respecting the mine including as to reserves. The owner’s failure to perform or other operating decisions made by the owner, including as to scaling back or ceasing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, our results of operations and financial condition. The commodities and resources segment of our business includes our royalty interests in the Wabush iron ore mine. The revenue derived from the interest is based on production generated by the mine’s third party owner. The owner generally has the power to determine the manner in which the iron ore is exploited, including decisions to expand, continue or reduce production from the mine, and decisions about the marketing of products extracted from the mine. The interests of the third party owner and our interests may not always be aligned. As an example, it will, in almost all cases, be in our interest to advance production as rapidly as possible in order to maximize near-term cash flow, while the third party operator may, in many cases, take a more cautious approach to development as it is at risk with respect to the cost of development and operations. Our inability to control the operations of the mine can adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Similar adverse effects may result from any other interests we may acquire that are primarily operated by a third party owner. In addition, we have no or very limited access to technical, geological data relating to the Wabush iron ore mine, including data as to reserves, nor have we received a Canadian National Instrument 43-101 compliant technical report in respect of the Wabush iron ore mine. As such, we cannot independently determine reserve amounts or the estimated life of the mine and are instead wholly dependent on the determination of the reserves by the owner of the mine. We can provide no assurances as to the level of reserves at the mine. If the owner of the mine determines there are insufficient reserves to economically operate the mine, it may scale back or cease operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our commodities and resources operations depends, in part, on the availability of adequate sources of supply. Our commodities and resources business relies, among other things, on numerous outside sources of supply for our trading activities. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and will have no obligation to provide commodities to us in the future. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold commodities to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling commodities to us, we will be unable to execute commodities trades at desired levels and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents We may face a lack of suitable acquisition or merger or other proprietary investment candidates, which may limit our growth. In order to grow our business, we may seek to acquire or merge with or invest in new companies or opportunities. Our failure to make acquisitions or investments may limit our growth. In pursuing acquisition and investment opportunities, we face competition from other companies having similar growth and investment strategies, many of which may have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for these acquisitions or investment targets could result in increased acquisition or investment prices, higher risks and a diminished pool of businesses, services or products available for acquisition or investment. We may be unable to successfully compete for mineral interests with companies having greater financial resources than we have. Mines have limited lives and as a result, we seek to expand our commodities and resources business through the acquisition of additional mineral interests. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the regions in which we operate, we face strong competition for such interests from other companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. Accordingly, we may not be able to acquire attractive additional mineral interests, including obtaining sufficient supply for our trading operations, on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or our entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We have grown and intend to continue to grow our business both through internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we expect to face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired businesses (including restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions, as well as other acquisition costs, such as accounting fees, legal fees and investment banking fees) could significantly impact our operating results. Although we perform diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. We may not be able to ascertain the value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their operations until we assume operating control of the assets and operations of these businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of risks, including: • problems with the effective integration of operations; • inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; • increased operating costs; • exposure to substantial unanticipated liabilities; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; • the risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • the possibility that we may be unable to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses. In addition, geographic and other expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Mass. In 2010 we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Mass. Realization of the anticipated benefits of the combination of the companies will require the successful integration of Mass’s business with ours. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption to our ongoing businesses or in inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers and employees. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the successful completion of the acquisition of Mass may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect for an undetermined period. The industries in which we operate may be affected by disruptions beyond our control. Our commodities and resources operations include direct or indirect investments in assets, such as smelting, refining, mining and processing operations. Transport disruption, weather and natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding, unexpected maintenance problems, collapse or damage to mines, unexpected geological variations, labor disruptions and changes in laws and regulations relating to occupational safety, health and environmental matters are some of the factors that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These factors can affect costs at particular industrial assets for varying periods. In addition, smelting, refining, mining and processing operations also rely on key inputs, such as labor, spare parts, fuel and electricity. Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may have a significant adverse impact on our future results. Our trading activities are subject to counterparty risks associated with performance of obligations by our trading partners and suppliers. Our business is subject to commercial risks, which include counterparty risk, such as failure of performance by commodities suppliers and failure of payment by our trading customers. We seek to reduce the risk of supplier non-performance by requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions where appropriate. We attempt to reduce the risk of non-payment by purchasers of commodities by imposing limits on open accounts extended to creditworthy customers and imposing credit support requirements for other customers. Nevertheless, we are exposed to the risk that parties owing us or our clients and other financial intermediaries may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. These counterparty obligations may arise, for example, from placing deposits, the extension of credit in trading and investment activities, and participation in payment, securities and commodity trading transactions on our behalf and as an agent on behalf of our clients. If any of these parties defaults on their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected. Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our merchant banking business increase the potential for significant losses. We may enter into large transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our commodities and resources business to facilitate client trading activities. The number and size of these large transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. Market fluctuations may also cause us to incur significant losses from our trading activities. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in the value of those assets or in the markets in which those assets are traded could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We will be dependent on the payments made by the owners and operators of our royalty and similar interests, and any delay in or failure of such royalty payments will affect the revenues generated by such interests. To the extent that we retain our current royalty interest, we will be dependent to a large extent upon the financial viability and operational effectiveness of owners and operators of our interests. Payments from production generally flow through the operator, and there is a risk of delay and additional expense in receiving such revenues. Payments may be delayed by restrictions imposed by lenders, delays in the sale or delivery of products, accidents, the recovery by operators of expenses incurred in the operation of any royalty properties, the establishment by operators of reserves for such expenses or the insolvency of an operator. Our rights to payment under the royalties will likely have to be enforced by 8 Table of Contents contract. This may inhibit our ability to collect outstanding royalties upon a default. Failure to receive any payments from the owners and operators of mines in which we have or may acquire a royalty interest may result in a material and adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. As a royalty holder, we have no or very limited access to operational data or to the actual properties underlying our royalty interests. Such limited access will likely be the case with any future royalty or similar interests acquired by us. Operators of royalty interests may inaccurately report data relating to the calculation of our royalty payments and underpay such royalty payments to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent grantors of royalties and other interests do not abide by their contractual obligations, we may be forced to take legal action to enforce our contractual rights. Such litigation may be time consuming and costly and, as with all litigation, there is no guarantee of success. Should any such decision be determined adversely to us, such decision may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to transaction risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We manage transaction risks through allocating and monitoring our capital investments in circumstances where the risk to our capital is minimal, carefully screening clients and transactions, and engaging qualified personnel to manage transactions. Nevertheless, transaction risks can arise from, among other things, our trading and merchant banking activities. These risks include market and credit risks associated with our merchant banking operations. We intend to make investments in highly unstructured situations and in companies undergoing severe financial distress. Such investments often involve severe time constraints. These investments may expose us to significant transaction risks. An unsuccessful investment may result in the total loss of such an investment and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our risk management strategies leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks that could impact our risk management strategies in the future and could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We use a variety of instruments and strategies to manage exposure to various types of risks. For example, we use derivative foreign exchange contracts to manage our exposure and our clients’ exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. However, these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Unexpected market developments may affect our risk management strategies during this time, and unanticipated developments could impact our risk management strategies in the future. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We, from time to time, enter into derivative transactions that require us to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we may not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to us. Fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuation in interest rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to interest rates. An increase in market interest rates may decrease the fair value of our fixed interest rate financial instrument assets and a decrease in market interest rates may decrease the fair value of our fixed interest rate financial instrument liabilities, thereby resulting in a reduction in the fair value of our equity. Similarly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. 9 Table of Contents Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairments, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. The exploration and development of mining and resource properties is inherently dangerous and subject to risk beyond our control. Companies engaged in resource activities are subject to all of the hazards and risks inherent in exploring for and developing natural resource projects. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, increase in the cost of labour, social unrest, fires, changes in the regulatory environment, impact of non-compliance with laws and regulations, fire, explosion, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations or other geological or grade problems, unanticipated metallurgical characteristics or less than expected mineral recovery, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave-ins, pit wall failures, flooding, rock bursts, periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, earthquakes, seismic activity, other natural disasters or unfavourable operating conditions and losses. Should any of these risks or hazards affect a company’s exploration or development activities, it may (i) cause the cost of development or production to increase to a point where it would no longer be economic to produce the metal or oil and natural gas from the company’s resources or expected reserves, (ii) result in a write down or write-off of the carrying value of one or more projects, (iii) cause delays or stoppage of mining or processing, (iv) result in the destruction of properties, processing facilities or third party facilities necessary to the company’s operations, (v) cause personal injury or death and related legal liability, or (vi) result in the loss of insurance coverage. The occurrence of any of above mentioned risks or hazards could result in an interruption or suspension of operation of the properties in which we hold an interest or any other properties we acquire in the future and have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our commodities and resources operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase the costs of doing business and may restrict the operations. All phases of a resource business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of government laws and regulations. Compliance with such laws and regulations can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any breach of environmental legislation by the operator of properties underlying our interests or by us, as an owner or operator of a property, could have a material impact on the viability of the relevant property and impair the revenue derived from the owned property or applicable royalty or other interest, which could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Operating cost increases could have a negative effect on the value of, and income from, any royalty interests we may acquire by potentially causing an operator to curtail, delay or close operations at a mine site. We or the operators of our current and any future resource interests may not be able to secure required permits and licenses. Operations underlying our resource interests may require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that we or the operator of any given project will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and mining operations. 10 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable and, as a result, we may have to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity, which will result in dilution to our shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further business activities. We may require new capital to grow our business and there are no assurances that capital will be available when needed, if at all. It is likely such additional capital will be raised through the issuance of additional equity which would result in dilution to our shareholders. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to companies engaged in commodities trading and financing and merchant banking. Failures of financial firms have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our commodities and resources business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our clients, counterparties, our lenders or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. We may substantially increase our debt in the future. We expect that it may be necessary for us to obtain financing with a bank or financial institution to provide funds for working capital, capital purchases, potential acquisitions and business development. However, because of our cash flow position, we do not expect that we will have any immediate need to obtain additional financing. Interest costs associated with any debt financing may adversely affect our profitability. Further, the terms on which amounts may be borrowed — including standard financial covenants regarding the maintenance of financial ratios, the prohibition against engaging in major corporate transactions or reorganizations and the payment of dividends — may impose additional constraints on our business operations and our financial strength. As a result of our global operations, we are exposed to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect our business, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In conducting our business in major markets around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in other countries. These risks range from difficulties in settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, and terrorism. We also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local currency received or held by us in their countries into Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Euros or other hard currencies, or to take those other currencies out of those countries. If any of these risks become a reality, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be negatively impacted. We are exposed to litigation risks in our business that are often difficult to assess or quantify. We anticipate that we will incur significant legal expenses every year in defending against litigation. We are exposed to legal risks in our business and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries are increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions, potential liability for advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions, and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We also face the possibility that counterparties in complex or risky trading transactions will claim that we improperly failed to tell them of the risks involved or that they were not authorized or permitted to enter into such transactions with us and that their obligations to us are not enforceable. During a prolonged market downturn, we expect these types of claims to increase. We are also exposed to legal risks in our merchant banking activities. We seek to invest in undervalued businesses or assets often as a result of financial, legal, regulatory or other distress affecting them. Investing in distressed businesses and assets can involve us in complex legal issues relating to priorities, claims and other rights of stakeholders. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and 11 Table of Contents magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation involved with any of these risks and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and/or adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely significantly on the skills and experience of our executives and the loss of these individuals may harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executives and the loss of their services may compromise our ability to effectively conduct our business. We do not maintain “key person” insurance in relation to any of our employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel to efficiently operate our business, and the failure to operate our business effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the continued availability and commitment of our management, whose contributions to immediate and future operations are of significant importance. The loss of any such management could negatively affect our business operations. From time to time, we will also need to identify and retain additional skilled management and specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate our business. The number of persons skilled in the acquisition, exploration and development of royalties and interests in natural resource properties is limited and competition for such persons is intense. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success and there can be no assurance of our ability to attract and retain such personnel. If we are not successful in attracting and training qualified personnel, our ability to execute our business model and growth strategy could be affected, which could have a material and adverse impact on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our directors and officers may, from time to time, serve in similar positions with other public companies, which may put them in a conflict position from time to time. Certain of our directors and officers may, from time to time, serve as directors or officers of other companies involved in similar businesses to us and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in the same ventures in which we may seek to participate, such directors and officers may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In all cases where our directors and officers have an interest in other companies, such other companies may also compete with us in commodities trading, financing and merchant banking and for the acquisition of royalties, similar interests or resources properties or projects. Such conflicts of our directors and officers may result in a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, and doing so increases the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate internationally, we will be subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States and other business entities that have securities registered in the United States for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and agreements with third parties in countries known to experience corruption. Further international expansion may involve more exposure to such practices. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants that could be in violation of various laws including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees or consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. It is not always possible to detect and deter employee misconduct. The precautions we take to detect and prevent employee misconduct may not be effective in all cases, and we could suffer significant reputational and economic harm for any misconduct by our employees. The potential harm to our reputation and to our business caused by such misconduct is impossible to quantify. We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our business and could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. General Risks Faced by Us Investors’ interests may be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. Our constating documents authorize the issuance of our common shares, class A common shares and class A preference shares, issuable in series. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances will also cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership of all other shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. Our constating documents contain indemnification provisions, and we have entered into agreements indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our constating documents contain indemnification provisions, and we have entered into agreements with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses, including amounts payable to settle actions or satisfy judgments, actually and reasonably incurred by them, and amounts payable to settle actions or satisfy judgments in civil, criminal or administrative actions or proceedings to which they are made a party by reason of being or having been a director or officer of our company. Such limitations on liability may reduce the likelihood of litigation against our officers and directors and may discourage or deter shareholders from suing our officers and directors based upon breaches of their duties to us, though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our shareholders. Certain factors may inhibit, delay or prevent a takeover of our company, which may adversely affect the price of our common shares. Certain provisions of our charter documents and the corporate legislation which govern us may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that shareholders may consider favourable. Such provisions include authorizing the issuance by our board of directors of preferred stock in series, providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms and limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, the Investment Canada Act imposes certain limitations on the rights of non-Canadians to acquire our common shares, although it is highly unlikely that this will apply. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common shares could decline. ITEM 4: Information on the Company A. History and Development of the Company Corporate Information We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. We were originally incorporated in June 1951 by letters patent issued pursuant to the Companies Act of 1934 (Canada). We were continued 13 Table of Contents under the Canada Business Corporations Act in March 1980, under the Business Corporations Act (Yukon) in August 1996 and under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) in November 2004. Our name was changed from “MFC Bancorp Ltd.” to “KHD Humboldt Wedag International Ltd.” on October 28, 2005 and, in connection with the divestiture of our Industrial Business, to “Terra Nova Royalty Corporation” on March 30, 2010. Our principal office is located at Suite 1620 – 400 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 3A6 and the telephone number is (604) 683-8286. Our registered office is located at Suite 1000 – 925 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V6C 3L2. General We are active in a broad spectrum of activities related to the integrated combination of commodities and resources, which includes commodity trading and our resource interests and merchant banking, which includes trade finance, financial services and proprietary investing. Until the first quarter of 2010, we were also active in the Industrial Business through our interest in KHD Humboldt Wedag International (Deutschland) AG, referred to as “KID”. Our former Industrial Business supplied plant systems as well as machinery and equipment worldwide for the manufacture of cement, whether for new plants, redevelopments of existing plants or capacity increases for existing plants. It also designed and provided equipment that produced clinker and cement and offered basic engineering, detail engineering, plant and equipment for complete plants and plant sections. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we considered the merits of dividing our Industrial Business into a separate publicly-traded company. Our board considered the feasibility, benefits and other considerations of dividing the Industrial Business into a separate, stand-alone entity, including implications for our shareholders, potential market reaction and the financial viability after giving effect to such a transaction. Following consideration of such factors, our board subsequently determined that such a separation would be beneficial to our shareholders and, during the course of 2010, we distributed our shares of KID to our shareholders. Upon the distribution to our shareholders of our Industrial Business, we operated primarily in the royalty and resources business. In connection with our long-term strategic plans, involving internal growth initiatives, acquisitions or business combinations, we seek out and evaluate strategic acquisition candidates. As a result of the deconsolidation of our Industrial Business, our board reviewed opportunities and strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value in light of our then focus on the resources business. In the third quarter of 2010, our board of directors gave serious consideration as to whether or not a business combination with Mass could be accomplished on favourable terms. Mass was engaged in the commodities, merchant banking and proprietary investment business. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Mass and consolidated its results of operations from November 16, 2010. Recent Developments The following is a summary of selected key developments in our business that occurred in 2010 and the start of 2011. Separation of the Industrial Business On March 30, 2010, we effected a reorganization and plan of arrangement, referred to as the “Arrangement”, pursuant to which, among other things, we distributed a portion of our interest in KID, which held our Industrial Business, to our shareholders and ceased to consolidate KID as at March 31, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the Arrangement, among other things, our shareholders received one share of KID for every three and one-half of our common shares held (calculated after a two-for-one forward split of KID). As a result, we distributed approximately 26% of KID’s outstanding shares (at such time) to our shareholders. In connection with the Arrangement, we entered into a shareholder agreement with another corporate shareholder of KID, referred to as the “Custodian”, dated March 27, 2010, pursuant to which we engaged the Custodian to direct the voting of the remainder of our holdings of KID shares. As a result, and given that we did not share any common directors or officers with KID, we no longer considered KID a subsidiary and ceased to consolidate it as at March 31, 2010. In 2010, we distributed the balance of the KID shares held by us to our shareholders as follows: • approximately 23% of the total issued shares of KID (at such time) were distributed to our shareholders of record on July 1, 2010 by way of a pro-rata special dividend on the basis of one common share of KID for every four of our common shares held; 14 Table of Contents • approximately 29% of the total issued shares of KID (at such time) were distributed to our shareholders of record on September 23, 2010, by way of a pro-rata return of capital on the basis of one common share of KID for every four of our common shares held; and • approximately 19.3% of the total issued shares of KID (at such time) were distributed to our shareholders of record on December 31, 2010, by way of a pro-rata return of capital on the basis of one share of KID for every ten of our common shares held. Rights Offering On July 27, 2010, we announced a rights offering, referred to as the “Rights Offering”, pursuant to which each holder of our common shares of record as of August 6, 2010 received one transferable right, referred to as a “Right”, for every common share held as of such date. Every four Rights entitled a holder to purchase one common share at a price of $6.60. The Rights Offering expired on September 2, 2010, and on September 8, 2010 we announced that the Rights Offering was oversubscribed, with subscriptions and requests for oversubscription amounting to over twice the amount we offered for sale. A total of 7,571,227 of our common shares, representing approximately 25% of our issued and outstanding common shares, as of September 8, 2010, were issued under the Rights Offering pursuant to the subscription privileges, representing total gross proceeds of approximately $50.0 million. Acquisition of Mass Financial Corp. On September 27, 2010, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Mass and our wholly-owned subsidiary, which provided for our acquisition of Mass by way of a multi-step transaction, including a tender offer for all of the outstanding common shares of Mass, referred to as the “Offer”, and the subsequent amalgamation of Mass with our wholly-owned subsidiary. The Offer was made on October 7, 2010 on the basis of one of our common shares for each common share of Mass. The Offer expired on November 8, 2010 and, pursuant thereto, we acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding common shares of Mass, excluding Mass shares already held by us. We completed our acquisition of Mass by effecting a compulsory acquisition of the Mass shares not tendered under the Offer pursuant to applicable laws and, subsequently, caused the amalgamation of Mass and our wholly-owned subsidiary in December 2010. As a result of the successful Offer, we commenced consolidating Mass’s operations, including its commodities and merchant banking activities from November 16, 2010. Cash Dividend Policy On January 10, 2011, we announced that our board of directors had adopted an annual dividend policy, providing for an annual dividend based on the annual dividend yield of the New York Stock Exchange, referred to as the “NYSE”, Composite Index for the preceding year plus 25 basis points. On the same date, we announced an annual cash dividend for 2011 of $0.20 per common share, payable in four quarterly instalments. The first dividend payment of $0.05 per share was made on January 31, 2011 to shareholders of record on January 20, 2011. On March 15, 2011, we announced that the second 2011 cash dividend payment of $0.05 per share would be made on April 11, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 31, 2011. B. Business Overview As a result of the acquisition of Mass, we are now active in a broad spectrum of activities related to the integrated combination of commodities and resources, commodities trading and our resource interests and merchant banking, including trade finance, financial services and proprietary investing. Business Segments Our business is divided into three reportable segments: (i) commodities and resources, which includes our mineral and royalty interests and commodities trading activities; (ii) merchant banking, which includes our trade finance, financial services and proprietary investing activities; and (iii) other, which encompasses our corporate and other investments and business interests. 15 Table of Contents Commodities and Resources Our commodities and resources operations include our integrated commodities trading activities and our mineral interests. We conduct trading primarily through our subsidiaries based in Vienna, Austria and supply various commodities, including minerals and metals, chemical and plastics and wood products to our customers. Such commodities originate either from our directly or indirectly held interests in resource projects or are secured by us from third parties. Our commodities trading activities are globally focused. We also derive production royalty revenue from a mining sub-lease of the lands upon which the Wabush iron ore mine is situated. Through our commodities and resources business, we also provide logistics and other services to producers and consumers of commodities. These activities are supported by strategic direct or indirect investments in natural resource assets operating in our core commodities, including the production of plastics, non-ferrous metals and minerals, including iron ore. Our commodities trading activities include purchasing, selling and conducting product swaps of various commodities. To a lesser extent, we also act as a trading agent for our clients. Our trading activities often utilize innovative trading strategies and structures. We currently trade with commodity and other producers who are unable to effectively realize sales due to their specific circumstances. Generally we purchase or produce the underlying commodity and sell it to an end buyer or further trade it for another commodity which will subsequently be sold. Further, commodity producers and end customers often work with us to better manage their internal supply, distribution risk, and currency and capital requirements. In such trading activities, we try to capture various trading, financing and currency spreads. Through our trading activities, we have been able to develop ongoing relationships with commodity producers, end customers and trade financiers and integrate them into our financial activities. Through our commodities trading activities, we have sourced, supplied and traded, primarily for our own account, the following commodities: Metals and Minerals Chemicals and Plastics Wood Products • iron-ore; • general purpose polystyrene; • pulp and saw logs; • bauxite; • high density polyethylene; • round logs; • manganese-ore; • linear low density polyethylene; • sawn timber; • cobalt; • low density polyethylene; • plywood; • base metals; • polyethylene terephthalate; • medium density fiberboard; and • magnesium; • polypropylene; and • wood pellets. • steel products; • polyvinyl chloride. • zinc alloys; • aluminum foils and sheets; • coal; • clinker; • cement; • ferrous alloys; and • silicon metals We generally source commodities from Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia, the United States and the Middle East. Our commodities sales include the European, Middle Eastern, Asian and North and South American markets. In the polyethylene terephthalate, referred to as “PET”, market, we source material from Malaysia, Taiwan, India and the Middle East. Through our agents in Europe and the United States, we sell PET on an outright basis, with a major portion of our PET sales being made to the pre-bottling industry in such regions. We have off-take agreements with sizeable polyvinyl chloride, referred to as “PVC”, and chemicals producers, which allow us to sell their products in the European market. Through an off-take agreement with a Southeast Asian supplier, we source and sell polymers mainly to the Middle Eastern markets as well as Germany and the United Kingdom. 16 Table of Contents Our trading activities are supported by our logistics and finance activities in order to provide cost effective and efficient transportation, as well as granting of payment terms for working capital requirements for our customers and partners. Our commodities and resources business employs over 320 people worldwide. Our main marketing office is located in Vienna, Austria. In addition, we establish relationships with and seek to further market our products through agents located worldwide. Our marketing and investment activities in the commodities and resource sector are supported by a global network of agents and relationships. This network provides us with worldwide sourcing and distribution capabilities. We have entered into agreements, through a subsidiary, with a third party leaseholder or an iron ore mine in Goa, India, pursuant to which the leaseholder has agreed to sell iron ore to our subsidiary at a fixed price per ton based on the extraction costs plus a royalty payment to the owner dependent upon the iron content of the iron ore. Pursuant to the agreements, our subsidiary has also been contracted to extract iron ore on behalf of the leaseholder at a fixed fee per ton. The initial term of the agreements expires on September 4, 2011 and our subsidiary has been granted the right to renew the agreements for three year terms until September 4, 2020. We currently indirectly derive production royalty revenue from a mining sub-lease of the lands upon which the Wabush iron ore mine is situated in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. This sub-lease commenced in 1956 and expires in 2055. The lessor is Knoll Lake Minerals Ltd., referred to as “Knoll Lake Minerals”, which holds a direct mining lease from the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The mine is currently operated by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc., referred to as “Cliffs”. Iron ore is shipped from the Wabush iron ore mine to Pointe Noire, Québec, Canada, where it is pelletized. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, 3.8 million, 3.2 million and 4.0 million tons of iron pellets, respectively, were shipped from Pointe Noire. Such shipments are subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations. Pursuant to the terms of the mining sub-lease, the royalty payment is not to be less than CDN$3.25 million per annum until its expiry. In 1988, the royalty rate was amended to require a base royalty rate of CDN$1.685 per ton with escalations as defined in the sub-lease. We are indirectly obligated to make royalty payments of CDN$0.22 per ton on shipments of iron ore pellets from Pointe Noire, Québec, to Knoll Lake Minerals, which holds the direct lease over the Wabush mine property with the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador. Cliffs applies a portion of the royalty payments under the sub-lease to make such royalty payments to Knoll Lake Minerals on our behalf. The Wabush royalty is paid quarterly and is based on the tonnage of iron ore pellets shipped from Pointe Noire, Quebec. One of the major components in the calculation of the Wabush royalty rate payable is based on the most recently published prices of a basket of five particular iron ore pellets, only two of which were published in the latter part of 2010. Historically, iron-ore benchmark prices were determined in the first quarter of the calendar year through negotiations between the major producers and their most significant customers. These prices were then generally adopted by the other suppliers when published. The significant increase in benchmark prices from 2007 to 2008 was resisted by the major Chinese steel mills in particular, who also refused to accept the lowered benchmark pricing offered in 2009. This led many major iron ore suppliers to move away from the annual international benchmark pricing mechanism that had been prevalent in the industry and in many customer supply agreements. This resulted in a shift in the industry towards shorter term pricing arrangements linked more closely to the spot market. In 2010, major iron ore producers moved to quarterly benchmark pricing which culminated in the negotiation of proprietary pricing agreements with specific customers that were not published. This shift in the marketplace has, among other things, made obsolete certain of the world iron ore pellet pricing methodology for calculating the royalty rate due to us contained in our sub-lease for the Wabush iron mine. As a result of these market changes, and as the sub-lease permits us to renegotiate an increase in the royalty rates when the mine achieves certain profitability thresholds, which we believe have been obtained, we have served the mine owner with notice of arbitration respecting our entitlement to a new base rate for the royalty. We have also provided the mine owners notice of arbitration seeking recovery for royalty underpayments in 2010. The outcome of such proceedings cannot be determined at this time. Iron ore is typically sold either as a concentrate, whereby the iron ore is in granular form, or as a pellet, whereby iron ore concentrate has been mixed with a binding agent, formed into a pellet and then fired in a furnace. Iron ore pellets can be charged directly into blast furnaces without further processing and are primarily used to produce pig iron which is subsequently transformed into steel. As such, the demand and, consequently the pricing of iron ore are dependent upon the raw material requirements of integrated steel producers. Demand for blast furnace steel is in turn cyclical in nature and is influenced by, among other things, the level of global economic activity. 17 Table of Contents The Wabush iron ore mine is operated by Cliffs, who on February 1, 2010 announced that it had acquired the interests of its other joint venture partners in the mine. Under the mining sub-lease, Cliffs pays royalties to the holder of the royalty interest based upon the amount of iron ore pellets shipped. One of the major components in the calculation of the Wabush royalty rate payable is based on the most recently published prices of a basket of five particular iron ore pellets. Although there can be no assurance as to future production levels, our management believes that since the operator is now also the sole owner of the Wabush iron ore mine, production from the mine will generally be maintained at relatively consistent levels, subject to market conditions. The following highlights selected key developments relating to our royalty interest in the Wabush iron ore mine in 2010: • we received a favorable decision from the arbitration panel relating to our claims against the mine owners and received an award for an aggregate royalty underpayment of approximately CDN$11.7 million. We are currently seeking to recover interest and expenses of approximately CDN$4.0 million. • the current royalty rate went up to CDN$6.63 per ton in the fourth quarter from CDN$6.57, CDN$5.96 and CDN$5.16 per ton, for the third, second and first quarters of 2010, respectively; • the fourth quarter of 2010 showed a slightly lower than average tons shipped, primarily related to approximately 18 days of scheduled maintenance taken by the mine operator; • we have given notice pursuant to our rights under the terms of the lease agreement underlying the Wabush royalty to renegotiate the royalty rate; and • the operator of the Wabush mine has indicated planned capital expenditures for 2011 of approximately $40.0 to $45.0 million for conversion of the production lines to reduce manganese, an additional $30.0 million for other equipment upgrades and replacement and approximately $30.0 million for environmental matters. The following table sets forth historical total iron ore shipments (which include pellets, chips and concentrates) and royalty payments to us based upon the amounts reported to us by the Wabush mine operator: Gross Average Total Gross Royalty Tonnage Shipped Tonnage Royalties Rate/Ton Year Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Shipped Received(1) Received (In thousands, other than the Royalty Rate) (All monetary amounts in Canadian dollars) 2005 789 1,392 1,299 982 4,462 $ 13,736 $ 3.08 2006 751 1,296 942 1,289 4,278 16,393 3.83 2007 472 1,607 1,591 1,339 5,009 22,357 4.46 2008 694 1,437 1,117 705 3,953 31,288 7.91 2009 402 386 1,202 1,198 3,188 17,350 5.44 2010 874 941 832 1,105 3,752 22,915 (2) 6.11 Average Shipments (Tons) 664 1,177 1,164 1,102 4,107 Notes (1) Subject to a 20% resource property revenue tax. (2) Does not include the amount of arbitration award. Merchant Banking Our merchant banking operations include merchant banking and financial services, including specialized banking, corporate finance, trade finance and other services, proprietary investing and our real estate and investment properties. We seek to invest in many industries, emphasizing those business opportunities where the perceived intrinsic value is not properly recognized. We use our financial and management expertise to add or unlock value within a relatively short time period. Our merchant banking activity is generally not passive and we seek investments where our financial expertise and 18 Table of Contents management can add or unlock value. Proprietary investments are generated and made as part of our overall merchant banking activities and are realized upon over time, sometimes taking more than one year. In addition, we often seek to acquire interests or establish relationships with commodity producers to realize upon potential synergies. Such interests can be acquired through purchases of, or investments in, commodity producers, or through contractual arrangements with them, including off-take agreements. The investments we make in commodity producers are part of our merchant banking strategy. Our activities include making proprietary investments through investing our own capital and utilizing our expertise to capture investment opportunities. We seek to invest in businesses or assets whose intrinsic value is not properly reflected in their share or other price. Often such investments are in companies or assets that are under financial, legal or regulatory distress and our services include resolving such distress. Our investing takes many forms and can include acquiring entire businesses or portions thereof, investing in equity, investing in the existing indebtedness (secured and unsecured) of a business or in new equity or debt issues. Our investing is generally not passive and we invest where we believe our expertise in financial restructuring and management and complementary trading and corporate finance capabilities can add or unlock value. Our investing in distressed businesses and/or assets can result in complex and intricate legal issues relating to priorities, claims and other rights of stakeholders. Such issues can result in our being involved in legal and other claims as part of our overall proprietary investment strategy. Our proprietary investments are often made as a part of, or complementary to our commodity and resources trading activities. We consider investment opportunities where: (i) our existing participation in the marketing and production of commodities provides expert insight; (ii) we can obtain a satisfactory return of future capital investment; and (iii) such investment integrates with our business. Our philosophy is to utilize our financial strength to realize the commercial potential of assets in markets where we have a comprehensive understanding of the drivers of value. Our merchant banking operations provide innovative finance services for corporate and trade finance transactions. We focus on meeting the financial needs of small to mid-sized companies and other business enterprises primarily in Europe and Asia. We believe that many of these clients are underserviced by the large global investment banks and financial service providers. We specialize in advising and structuring business enterprises involved in unstructured and novel situations where a strong financial partner is needed and traditional, off-the-shelf solutions are not workable. In addition, we utilize our established relationships with international financial institutions, credit insurance and factoring companies to provide flexible customized financial tools, extensive credit and risk management and structured finance to our customers. Working closely with our customers, our professional staff arranges support of hedging and trading of materials, arrangements of financing and risk management solutions. Our merchant banking activities also include leveraging our trading and financial experience and relationships to provide trading services, such as transportation and logistics, and trade finance services to our trading customers. Our merchant banking business generates revenues in the form of corporate and trade finance service fees and interest income. We also realize gains from time to time on our proprietary investments, upon their sale, upon the execution of an equity or debt restructuring, or the completion of other forms of divestment. Through our acquisition of Mass in November 2010, we acquired an indirect 52.9% interest in Canoro Resources Ltd., referred to as “Canoro”, which operated certain oil and gas interests in India. Prior to our consolidation of Mass, Canoro’s interests in such assets were terminated by the governmental regulator. The matter is currently subject to arbitration and appeal, the outcome of which cannot be determined at this time. As a result, we have not recognized such oil and gas interests in our statement of financial position as at December 31, 2010. Other Our other segment includes our corporate and investments, which include financing joint ventures through our Shanghai-based subsidiary which provides medical equipment and supplies. Specifically, such subsidiary is engaged in the operation of eye care centers through joint ventures with government-controlled hospitals in China. Under such joint ventures, the hospitals provide the necessary space and medical staff to operate the centers, and our subsidiary provides the centers with specialized medical equipment and supplies, training and supervision with respect to certain surgical procedures. We retain ownership of the equipment we supply to the centers during the term of such joint ventures. We also sell and service medical equipment. 19 Table of Contents Company Strategy Our primary and over-riding business objective is to enhance value and create wealth for our shareholders. The key elements of our strategy include the following: • Investing in Undervalued Opportunities. We seek to invest in businesses or assets whose intrinsic value is not properly reflected in their share price, or where we perceive that our commodities and financial expertise and management can add or unlock value. These include investments in highly unstructured situations and in companies undergoing financial or operational stress. Such investments often involve severe time constraints, and given our liquid resources, we are well positioned to capitalize on such opportunities. Unlike traditional companies in the financial services sector, our investing is generally not passive. • Geographic Scope of Operations. We operate globally so we supply a diversified range of commodities to our customers, develop new relationships with producers and consumers of commodities and selectively target new business and investment opportunities worldwide. • Strategic Investments. Strategic investments in resource assets are an important component of our commodities trading activities and value added services. We pursue selective strategic acquisitions and alliances to support and strengthen our commodities operations as and when opportunities arise. We will continue to apply our investment criteria to our acquisitions, pursuing investments in assets that are of strategic importance to our core businesses. At the same time, we continue to evaluate dispositions of investments or assets, in particular when they are no longer deemed to support our core business or when attractive selling opportunities arise. • Create Shareholder Value. The nature of our business is cyclical and affected by several factors that do not lend themselves to regular evaluation. Therefore, we do not evaluate our performance and do not believe we should be scrutinized in terms of our price-to-earnings multiple. We seek to grow our asset base and net worth and believe these are the best valuation measures for our business. • Financial Profile. We seek to maintain our fiscal profile so we can access necessary financing on competitive terms. In addition, we believe our fiscal approach helps us to manage acquisition risks and maintain a high level of liquidity. • Risk Approach. We have adopted policies intended to mitigate and manage commodity price and counterparty risks associated with our commodities trading activities. For example, a substantial portion of our inventory of commodities is at any time under contract for sale at a pre-determined price. We also reduce the risk of non-payment by customers by imposing limits on open accounts extended to creditworthy customers and imposing credit support requirements for other customers. Competitive Strengths We believe that our competitive strengths include the following: • International Capabilities. Unlike other similarly sized companies, we have sought to develop a broad geographic scope rather than focusing on any one particular market. While many of our larger competitors have greater presences in more international markets, including merchant and investment banks, trading firms, brokerage firms, commercial banks and hedge funds, we believe our smaller size and collegiality allow us to work as a team on cross-border transactions better than many of our competitors. • Liquidity. Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the merchant banking industry and commodities and resources business and is key to strategic acquisitions to further expand and support our commodities and resources business. We therefore maintain liquidity in order to be able to capitalize on business opportunities in time sensitive transactions, fund our core businesses to continue to generate revenues, and fund a broad range of potential cash outflows in stressed environments, including financing obligations. Our approach to liquidity allows us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets, and affords us significant flexibility in structuring our affairs and managing through difficult funding environments. Historically, we have funded our businesses with cash generated from our operations. • Independence. We are an independent company managed by our directors and officers, rather than part of a larger, diversified financial services institution. Such financial services companies can develop conflicts with their 20 Table of Contents clients due to the large number of customers they service, their own investment and trading position and the broad range of products and services they offer. We believe that awareness of these potential conflicts has heightened and that such awareness has resulted in increased opportunities for independent firms like us in respect of merger, acquisition, restructuring and similar transactions. • Management. We believe that our management has expertise in the commodities and resources and merchant banking industries, including critical expertise with respect to our specialized financial services and corporate finance services internationally, including on corporate restructurings and mergers and acquisitions. • Integrated Service Approach. We believe our logistics and financing activities allow us to provide a full-service solution to our commodities trading customers and suppliers. We are able to provide our customers and suppliers assistance with transportation and logistics as well as trading, hedging, financing and risk management services. • Operating Structure Allows Prompt Response to Investment Opportunities. We have a lean operating structure and are therefore able to quickly assess whether a business venture represents an appropriate investment for us, responding promptly to all desirable business opportunities. We carefully select the business opportunities we investigate and do not move forward unless we have a high level of confidence that the opportunities fit within our objectives and core competencies. Competitive Conditions All segments of our business are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our operations are relatively small compared to our competitors. Many of our competitors have far greater financial resources, a broader range of products and services, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and marketing resources, a larger number of senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we do. These competitors may be better able to respond to changes in business conditions, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Further many companies are engaged in the acquisition of resource interests. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring such properties and interests as many competitors may have greater financial resources and technical staff. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against other companies in acquiring additional interests and resource properties. The scale of our competitors in the merchant banking business has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies, especially in the banking and financial industries. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support their businesses with other services such as commercial lending in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. We believe that our experience and operating structure permit us to respond more rapidly to our clients’ needs than many of our larger competitors. These traits are important to small and mid-sized business enterprises, many of which do not have large internal corporate finance departments to handle their capital requirements. We develop a partnership approach to assist clients. This often permits us to develop multiple revenue sources from the same client. For example, we may purchase and sell a client’s products, or commit our own capital to make a proprietary investment in its business or capital structure. 21 Table of Contents C. Organizational Structure The following table describes our direct and indirect significant subsidiaries as at the date hereof, their respective jurisdictions of organization and our beneficial interest in respect of each subsidiary. The table excludes subsidiaries which only hold inter-company assets and liabilities and do not have any active business. Country of Beneficial Incorporation Interest(1) M Financial Corp. Barbados 100 % MFC Commodities GmbH Austria 100 % MFC Trade & Financial Service GmbH Austria 100 % IC Management Service GmbH Austria 100 % Global Bulk Transport GmbH Austria 100 % International Trade Service GmbH Austria 100 % Magnum Minerals Private Limited India 100 % AFM Aluminiumfolie Merseberg GmbH Germany 55 % MAW Mansfelder Alumiumwerk GmbH Germany 55 % MFC(A) Ltd Marshall Islands 100 % MFC(D) Ltd Marshall Islands 100 % Brock Metals s.r.o. Slovakia 100 % MFC Corporate Services AG Switzerland 100 % Mednet (Shanghai) Medical Technical Developing Co., Ltd China 90 % Chongqing Lasernet Guangji Eye Hospital (a limited company) China 52 % Hangzhou Zhe-er Optical Co. Ltd China 46 % MFC Metal Trading GmbH Austria 100 % MEG International Services Ltd Canada 100 % Note (1) Percentages rounded to nearest whole number. D. Property, Plants and Equipment Office Space Our principal office is located at Suite 1620 — 400 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 3A6. We also maintain offices in Vienna, Austria, Hong Kong and Shanghai, China and Goa, India. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate for our needs through the end of the year ending December 31, 2011. Should we require additional space at that time, or prior thereto, we believe that such space can be secured on commercially reasonable terms. Royalty Interest We participate in a royalty interest which consists of a mining sub-lease of the lands upon which the Wabush iron ore mine is situated. For a discussion of the royalty interest, see “