D. Risk Factors Certain statements in this annual report on Form 20-F are forward-looking statements, which reflect our management's expectations regarding our future growth, results of operations, performance and business prospects and opportunities. Forward-looking statements consist of statements that are not purely historical, including any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations, projections or intentions regarding the future. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements. An investment in our common shares involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report on Form 20-F in evaluating our company and our business before purchasing our common shares. Our business, operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by one or more of the following risks. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period. We expect our business to experience significant periodic variations in its revenues and results of operations in the future. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our merchant banking revenues are often earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In many cases, we may receive little or no payment for engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. Additionally, through our merchant banking business, we seek to acquire undervalued assets where we can use our experience and management to realize upon the value. Often, we will hold or build upon these assets over time, and we cannot predict the timing of when these assets' values may be realized. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings and, therefore, our profitability may be affected by commodities price volatility. The majority of our revenue from our global commodity supply chain business is derived from the sale of commodities, including metals, hydrocarbons, plastics and other materials. As a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these commodities. In addition, our revenues from our iron ore and natural gas interests are directly connected to the prices of such commodities. There are many factors influencing the price of metals, hydrocarbons, plastics and other commodities, including: expectations for inflation; global and regional demand and production; political and economic conditions; and production costs in major producing regions. These factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. Changes in the prices of iron ore, hydrocarbons, plastics, metals and other commodities may adversely affect our operating results. A weak global economy can adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings, and it may be materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Global prices for our commodities are influenced strongly by international demand and global economic conditions. Uncertainties or weaknesses in global economic conditions, including the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe, could adversely affect our business and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, the current level of international demand for certain of our commodities, including iron ore, used in steel production is driven largely by industrial growth in China. If the economic growth rate in China slows for an extended period of time, or if another global economic downturn were to occur, we would likely see decreased demand for such products and decreased prices, resulting in lower revenue levels and decreasing margins. We are not able to predict whether the global economic conditions will continue or worsen and the impact it may have on our operations and the industry in general going forward. 6 Market deterioration and weakness can result in a material decline in the number and size of the transactions that we execute for our own account and for our clients and to a corresponding decline in our revenues. Any market weakness can further result in losses to the extent that we own assets in such market. The global commodity supply chain and merchant banking businesses are highly competitive. All aspects of the global commodity supply chain and merchant banking businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors include merchant and investment banks, brokerage firms, commercial banks, private equity firms, hedge funds, financial advisory firms and natural resource and mineral royalty companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital and resources, including access to commodities supply, than we do. We believe that the principal factors affecting competition in our business include transaction execution, our products and services, client relationships, reputation, innovations, credit worthiness and price. We have experienced price competition in some of our trading business. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support their business with other financial services such as commercial lending in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The operation of the iron ore mine underlying our royalty interest is generally determined by a third party operator, and we have no decision making power as to how the property is operated. In addition, we have no or very limited access to technical or geological data respecting the mine, including as to reserves. The operator's failure to perform or other operating decisions made by the operator, including scaling back or ceasing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. The commodities and resources segment of our business includes our indirect royalty interest in the iron ore mine. The revenue derived from the interest is based on production generated by the mine's third party operator. The operator generally has the power to determine the manner in which the iron ore is exploited, including decisions to expand, continue or reduce production from the mine, and decisions about the marketing of products extracted from the mine. The interests of the third party operator and our interests may not always be aligned. As an example, it will, in almost all cases, be in our interest to advance production as rapidly as possible in order to maximize near-term cash flow, while the third party operator may, in many cases, take a more cautious approach to development, as it is at risk with respect to the cost of development and operations. Our inability to control the operations of the mine can adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Similar adverse effects may result from any other interests we may acquire that are primarily operated by a third party operator. To the extent that we retain our current indirect royalty interest, we will be dependent to a large extent upon the financial viability and operational effectiveness of owners and operators of our interests. Payments from production generally flow through the operator and there is a risk of delay and additional expense in receiving such revenues. Payments may be delayed by restrictions imposed by lenders, delays in the sale or delivery of products, accidents, the recovery by operators of expenses incurred in the operation of any royalty properties, the establishment by operators of reserves for such expenses or the insolvency of an operator. Our rights to payment under the royalties will likely have to be enforced by contract. This may inhibit our ability to collect outstanding royalties upon a default. Failure to receive any payments from the owners and operators of mines in which we have or may acquire a royalty interest may result in a material and adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent grantors of royalties and other interests do not abide by their contractual obligations, we may be forced to take legal action to enforce our contractual rights. Such litigation may be time consuming and costly, and, as with all litigation, there is no guarantee of success. Should any such decision be determined adversely to us, such decision may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. 7 In addition, we have no or very limited access to technical, geological data relating to the mine, including data as to reserves, nor have we received a NI 43-101 compliant technical report in respect of the mine. As such, we cannot independently determine reserve amounts or the estimated life of the mine and are instead wholly dependent on the determination of the reserves by the operator of the mine. We can provide no assurances as to the level of reserves at the mine. If the operator of the mine determines there are insufficient reserves to economically operate the mine, it may scale back or cease operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our global commodity supply chain operations depends, in part, on the availability of adequate sources of supply. Our global commodity supply chain business relies on, among other things, numerous outside sources of supply for our operations. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and will have no obligation to provide commodities to us in the future. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold commodities to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling commodities to us, we will be unable to source and/or execute commodities transactions at desired levels and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may face a lack of suitable acquisition or merger or other proprietary investment candidates, which may limit our growth. In order to grow our business, we may seek to acquire, merge with or invest in new companies or opportunities. Our failure to make acquisitions or investments may limit our growth. In pursuing acquisition and investment opportunities, we face competition from other companies having similar growth and investment strategies, many of which may have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for these acquisitions or investment targets could result in increased acquisition or investment prices, higher risks and a diminished pool of businesses, services or products available for acquisition or investment. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or our entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We have grown and intend to continue to grow our business both through internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. When we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we expect to face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired businesses (including restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions, as well as other acquisition costs, such as accounting fees, legal fees and investment banking fees) could significantly impact our operating results. Although we perform due diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. We may not be able to ascertain the value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their operations until we assume operating control of the assets and operations of these businesses. Furthermore, any acquisitions of businesses or facilities, including our recent acquisition of Compton, could entail a number of risks, including: problems with the effective integration of operations; inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; increased operating costs; exposure to substantial unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; the risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and the possibility that we may be unable to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses. 8 In addition, geographic and other expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The industries in which we operate may be affected by disruptions beyond our control. Our global commodity supply chain operations include direct or indirect investments in assets, such as smelting, refining, mining, processing and hydrocarbon operations. Transport disruption, weather and natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding, unexpected maintenance problems, collapse or damage to mines or wells, unexpected geological variations, labour disruptions and changes in laws and regulations relating to occupational safety, health and environmental matters are some of the factors that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These factors can affect costs at particular assets for varying periods. In addition, smelting, refining, mining, processing and hydrocarbon operations also rely on key inputs, such as labour, spare parts, fuel and electricity. Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may have a significant adverse impact on our future results. Our commodities activities are subject to counterparty risks associated with performance of obligations by our counterparties and suppliers. Our business is subject to commercial risks, which include counterparty risk, such as failure of performance by commodities suppliers and failure of payment by our trading customers. We seek to reduce the risk of supplier non-performance by requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions where appropriate. We attempt to reduce the risk of non-payment by purchasers of commodities by imposing limits on open accounts extended to creditworthy customers and imposing credit support requirements for other customers. Nevertheless, we are exposed to the risk that parties owing us or our clients and other financial intermediaries may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. These counterparty obligations may arise, for example, from placing deposits, the extension of credit in trading and investment activities and participation in payment, securities and commodity trading transactions on our behalf and as an agent on behalf of our clients. If any of these parties default on their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected. Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our global commodity supply chain business increase the potential for significant losses. We may enter into large transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our global commodity supply chain business to facilitate client trading activities. The number and size of these large transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. Market fluctuations may also cause us to incur significant losses from our trading activities. To the extent that we own assets (i.e., have long positions), a downturn in the value of those assets or in the markets in which those assets are traded could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own (i.e., have short positions) in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We are subject to transaction risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We manage transaction risks through allocating and monitoring our capital investments in circumstances where the risk to our capital is minimal, carefully screening clients and transactions, and engaging qualified personnel to manage transactions. Nevertheless, transaction risks can arise from, among other things, our trading and merchant banking activities. These risks include market and credit risks associated with our merchant banking operations. We intend to make investments in highly unstructured situations and in companies undergoing severe financial distress. Such investments often involve severe time constraints. These investments may expose us to significant transaction risks. An unsuccessful investment may result in the total loss of such an investment and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our risk management strategies leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks that could impact our risk management strategies in the future and could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We use a variety of instruments and strategies to manage exposure to various types of risks. For example, we use derivative foreign exchange contracts to manage our exposure and our clients' exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. However, these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Unexpected market developments may affect our risk management strategies during this time, and unanticipated developments could impact our risk management strategies in the future. 9 Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We, from time to time, enter into derivative transactions that require us to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we may not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to us. Fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuation in interest rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to interest rates. An increase or decrease in market interest rates may result in changes to the fair value of our fixed interest rate financial instrument liabilities, thereby resulting in a reduction in the fair value of our equity. Similarly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the fair value of our financial instruments sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairments, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. The exploration and development of mining and resource properties is inherently dangerous and subject to risks beyond our control. Companies engaged in resource activities are subject to all of the hazards and risks inherent in exploring for and developing natural resource projects. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labour disputes, increases in the cost of labour, social unrest, fires, changes in the regulatory environment, impact of non-compliance with laws and regulations, explosions, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations or other geological or grade problems, unanticipated metallurgical characteristics or less than expected mineral recovery, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave-ins, pit wall failures, flooding, rock bursts, periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, earthquakes, seismic activity, other natural disasters or unfavourable operating conditions and losses. Should any of these risks or hazards affect a company's exploration or development activities, it may: (i) cause the cost of development or production to increase to a point where it would no longer be economic to produce the metal or other resource from the company's resources or expected reserves; (ii) result in a write down or write-off of the carrying value of one or more projects; (iii) cause delays or stoppage of mining or processing; (iv) result in the destruction of properties, processing facilities or third party facilities necessary for operations; (v) cause personal injury or death and related legal liability; or (vi) result in the loss of insurance coverage. The occurrence of any of above mentioned risks or hazards could result in an interruption or suspension of operation of the properties in which we hold an interest or any other properties we acquire in the future and have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our natural gas and related operations are subject to inherent risks and hazards. There are many operating risks and hazards inherent in exploring for, producing, processing, and transporting natural gas and oil. Drilling operations may encounter unexpected formations or pressures that could cause damage to equipment or personal injury and fires, explosions, blowouts, spills, or other accidents may occur. Additionally, we could experience interruptions to, or the termination of, drilling, production, processing, and transportation activities due to bad weather, natural disasters, delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, insufficient storage or transportation capacity, or other geological and mechanical conditions. Any of these events that result in a shutdown or slowdown of operations will adversely affect our business. While close well supervision and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates over time, production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. 10 Drilling activities, including completions, are subject to the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered and we will not recover all or any portion of our investment. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain due to drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over pressured zones, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. Mineral resource calculations are only estimates. Any figures presented for mineral resources in this document are only estimates. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral resources. Such estimates are subjective, and the accuracy of mineral resource estimation is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and of the assumptions made and judgments used in engineering and geological interpretation. These amounts are estimates only, and the actual level of recovery of minerals from such deposits may be different. Differences between our assumptions, including economic assumptions such as mineral prices, market conditions and actual events, could have a material adverse effect on our mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, financial position and results of operation. No assurance can be given that any mineral resource estimates will be ultimately reclassified as reserves. Estimates of natural gas and oil reserves involve uncertainty. Estimates of natural gas and oil reserves involve a great deal of uncertainty because they depend upon the reliability of available geologic and engineering data, which is inherently imprecise. Geologic and engineering data are used to determine the probability that an oil and gas reservoir exists at a particular location and whether hydrocarbons are recoverable from the reservoir. The probability of the existence and recoverability of reserves is less than 100% and actual recoveries may be materially different from estimates. Such estimates require numerous assumptions relating to operating conditions and economic factors, including the prices of such commodities, availability of investment capital, recovery costs, the availability of enhanced recovery techniques, the ability to market production, and governmental and other regulatory factors, such as taxes, royalty rates, and environmental laws. A change in one or more of these factors could result in known quantities of natural gas and oil previously estimated becoming unrecoverable. Each of these factors also impacts recovery costs and production rates. In addition, estimates of reserves that are prepared by different independent engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future natural gas, NGL and oil production would decline, thereby reducing our cash flows and results of operations and impairing our financial condition. The rate of production from our natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire interests in additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify additional reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as natural gas, NGLs and oil are produced. Accordingly, to the extent we are not successful in replacing such production, our future revenues may decline. Creating and maintaining an inventory of prospects for future production depends on many factors, including: obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas; drilling success; the ability to complete long lead-time, capital-intensive projects timely and on budget; the ability to find or acquire additional proved reserves at acceptable costs; and the ability to fund such activity. 11 Our global commodity supply chain operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase the costs of doing business and may restrict such operations. All phases of a resource business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of government laws and regulations. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Compliance with such laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any breach of environmental legislation by the operator of properties underlying our interests or by us, as an owner or operator of a property, could have a material impact on the viability of the relevant property and impair the revenue derived from the owned property or applicable royalty or other interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, environmental hazards may exist on the properties on which we hold interests, which are unknown to us at present and have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in resource operations or in the exploration or development of resource properties may also be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. We are not fully insured against certain environmental risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. In particular, insurance against risks from environmental pollution occurring over time, as opposed to sudden and catastrophic damages, is not available on economically reasonable terms. Accordingly, our properties may be subject to liability due to hazards that cannot be insured against or that have not been insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Future environmental and reclamation obligations respecting our resource properties and interests may be material. We have not established a separate reclamation fund for the purpose of funding estimated future environmental and reclamation obligations. Any site reclamation or abandonment costs incurred in the ordinary course in a specific period will be funded out of cash flow from operations. It is not possible for us to predict our ability to fully fund the cost of all of our future environmental, abandonment and reclamation obligations. We expect to incur site restoration costs over a prolonged period as wells reach the end of their economic life. There are significant uncertainties related to decommissioning obligations, and the impact on the financial statements could be material. The eventual timing of and costs for these asset retirement obligations could differ from current estimates. The main factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: changes to laws and legislation; construction of new facilities; change in the reserve estimate and the resulting amendment to the life of the reserves for our hydrocarbon operations; and changes in technology. We or the operators of our current and any future resource interests may not be able to secure required permits and licenses. Operations underlying our resource interests may require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that we or the operator of any given project will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development or other resource operations. 12 There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable, and, as a result, we may have to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity, which will result in dilution to our shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further business activities. We may require new capital to grow our business, and there are no assurances that capital will be available when needed, if at all. It is likely such additional capital will be raised through the issuance of additional equity, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to companies engaged in commodities trading and financing and merchant banking. Failures of financial firms have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our commodities and resources business, and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients' and counterparties' willingness to engage in transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our clients, counterparties, our lenders or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. We may substantially increase our debt in the future. We expect that it may be necessary for us to obtain financing with a bank or financial institution to provide funds for working capital, capital purchases, potential acquisitions and business development. However, because of our cash flow position, we do not expect that we will have any immediate need to obtain additional financing. Interest costs associated with any debt financing may adversely affect our profitability. Further, the terms on which amounts may be borrowed – including standard financial covenants regarding the maintenance of financial ratios, the prohibition against engaging in major corporate transactions or reorganizations and the payment of dividends – may impose additional constraints on our business operations and our financial strength. As a result of our global operations, we are exposed to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect our business, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In conducting our business in major markets around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in other countries. These risks range from difficulties in settling transactions in emerging markets to possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, and terrorism. We also face the risk that exchange controls or similar restrictions imposed by foreign governmental authorities may restrict our ability to convert local currency received or held by us in their countries into Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, Euros or other hard currencies, or to take those other currencies out of those countries. If any of these risks become a reality, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be negatively impacted. We are exposed to litigation risks in our business that are often difficult to assess or quantify. We anticipate that we will incur significant legal expenses every year in defending against litigation. We are exposed to legal risks in our business, and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation against financial intermediaries are increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions, potential liability for advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We also face the possibility that counterparties in complex or risky trading transactions will claim that we improperly failed to tell them of the risks involved or that they were not authorized or permitted to enter into such transactions with us and that their obligations to us are not enforceable. During a prolonged market downturn, we expect these types of claims to increase. We are also exposed to legal risks in our merchant banking activities. We seek to invest in undervalued businesses or assets often as a result of financial, legal, regulatory or other distress affecting them. Investing in distressed businesses and assets can involve us in complex legal issues relating to priorities, claims and other rights of stakeholders. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation involved with any of these risks and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and/or adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 We rely significantly on the skills and experience of our executives, and the loss of any of these individuals may harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executives, and the loss of their services may compromise our ability to effectively conduct our business. We do not maintain "key person" insurance in relation to any of our employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel to efficiently operate our business, and the failure to operate our business effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the continued availability and commitment of our management, whose contributions to immediate and future operations are of significant importance. The loss of any such management could negatively affect our business operations. From time to time, we will also need to identify and retain additional skilled management and specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate our business. The number of persons skilled in the acquisition, exploration and development of royalties and interests in natural resource properties is limited, and competition for such persons is intense. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success, and there can be no assurance of our ability to attract and retain such personnel. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, our ability to execute our business model and growth strategy could be affected, which could have a material and adverse impact on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our directors and officers may, from time to time, serve in similar positions with other public companies, which may put them in a conflict position with us from time to time. Certain of our directors and officers may, from time to time, serve as directors or officers of other companies involved in similar businesses to us, and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in the same ventures in which we may seek to participate, such directors and officers may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In all cases where our directors and officers have an interest in other companies, such other companies may also compete with us in commodities trading, financing and merchant banking and for the acquisition of royalties, similar interests or resources properties or projects. Such conflicts of our directors and officers may result in a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, and doing so increases the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate internationally, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States and other business entities that have securities registered in the United States for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and agreements with third parties in countries known to experience corruption. Further international expansion may involve more exposure to such practices. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or consultants that could be in violation of various laws including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees or consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. It is not always possible to detect and deter employee misconduct. The precautions we take to detect and prevent employee misconduct may not be effective in all cases, and we could suffer significant reputational and economic harm for any misconduct by our employees. The potential harm to our reputation and to our business caused by such misconduct is impossible to quantify. 14 We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our business and could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses. General Risks Faced by Us Investors' interests may be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. Our constating documents authorize the issuance of our common shares, Class A common shares and Class A Preference Shares, issuable in series. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors' interests in us will be diluted, and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances will also cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership of all other shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of our company. Certain factors may inhibit, delay or prevent a takeover of our company, which may adversely affect the price of our common shares. Certain provisions of our charter documents and the corporate legislation which govern us may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that shareholders may consider favourable. Such provisions include authorizing the issuance by our board of directors of preferred stock in series, providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms and limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, the Investment Canada Act imposes certain limitations on the rights of non-Canadians to acquire our common shares, although it is highly unlikely that this will apply. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common shares could decline. 