ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth in the following risk factors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity, and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company's forward-looking statements. The information set forth in this Item 1A. Risk Factors should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this annual report, including Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.As a common carrier, the Company is required by law to transport dangerous goods and hazardous materials, which could expose the Company to significant costs and claims. Railways, including CP, are legally required to transport dangerous goods and hazardous materials as part of their common carrier obligations regardless of risk or potential exposure of loss. CP transports dangerous goods and hazardous materials, including but not limited to crude oil, ethanol and TIH materials such as chlorine and anhydrous ammonia. A train accident involving hazardous materials could result in significant claims against CP arising from personal injury and property or natural resource damage, environmental penalties and remediation obligations. Such claims, if insured, could exceed the existing insurance coverage commercially available to CP, which could have a material adverse effect on CP’s financial condition and liquidity. CP is also required to comply with rules and regulations regarding the handling of dangerous goods and hazardous materials in Canada and the U.S. Noncompliance with these rules and regulations can subject the Company to significant penalties and could factor in litigation arising out of a train accident. Changes to these rules and regulations could also increase operating costs, reduce operating efficiencies and impact service delivery. The Company is subject to significant governmental legislation and regulation over commercial, operating and environmental matters. The Company's railway operations are subject to extensive federal laws, regulations and rules in both Canada and the U.S. Operations are subject to economic and safety regulations in Canada primarily by the Agency, Transport Canada, the CTA and the RSA. The Company's U.S. operations are subject to economic and safety regulation by the STB and the FRA. Various other regulators directly and indirectly affect the Company's operations in areas such as health, safety, security, environmental and other matters. Additional economic regulation of the rail industry by these regulators or the Canadian and U.S. legislatures, whether under new or existing laws, could have a significant negative impact on the Company's ability to determine prices for rail services and result in a material adverse effect in the future on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and liquidity in a particular year or quarter. This potential material adverse effect could also result in reduced capital spending on the Company's rail network or abandonment of lines. The Company's compliance with safety and security regulations may result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. For example, compliance with the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 will result in additional capital expenditures associated with the statutorily mandated implementation of PTC. In addition to increased capital expenditures, implementation of such regulations may result in reduced operational efficiency and service levels, as well as increased operating expenses.The Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws concerning, among other matters, emissions to the air, land and water and the handling of hazardous materials and wastes. Violation of these laws and regulations can result in significant fines and penalties as well as other potential impacts to CP's operations. These laws can impose strict, and in some circumstances, joint and several liability on both current and former owners and operators of facilities. Such environmental liabilities may also be raised by adjacent landowners or third parties. In addition, in operating a railway, it is possible that releases of hazardous materials during derailments or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to human health or to the environment. Costs of remediation, damages and changes in regulations could materially affect the Company's operating results and reputation. The Company has been, and may in the future be, subject to allegations or findings to the effect that it has violated, or is strictly liable under, environmental laws or regulations. The Company currently has obligations at existing sites for investigation, remediation and monitoring and will likely have obligations at other sites in the future. The actual costs associated with both current and long-term liabilities may vary from company estimates due to a number of factors including, but not limited to changes in: the content or interpretation of environmental laws and regulations; required remedial actions; technology associated with site investigation or remediation; and the involvement and financial viability of other parties that may be responsible for portions of those liabilities.Global economic conditions could negatively affect demand for commodities and other freight transported by the Company. A decline or disruption in domestic or global economic conditions that affect the supply or demand for the commodities that CP transports may decrease CP’s freight volumes and may result in a material adverse effect on CP’s financial or operating results and liquidity. Economic conditions resulting in bankruptcies of one or more large customers could have a significant impact on CP's financial position, results of operations, and liquidity in a particular year or quarter.The Company faces competition from other transportation providers, and failure to compete effectively could adversely affect results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Company faces significant competition for freight transportation in Canada and the U.S., including competition from other railways, pipelines, trucking and barge companies. Competition is based mainly on price, quality of service and access to markets. Other transportation providers generally use public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by government entities, while CP and other railroads must use internal resources to build and maintain their rail networks. Competition with the trucking industry is generally based on freight rates, flexibility of service and transit time 14performance. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the burden of the size or weight limitations currently applicable to trucking carriers, could have a material adverse effect on CP's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The operations of carriers with which the Company interchanges may adversely affect operations. The Company's ability to provide rail services to customers in Canada and the U.S. largely depends upon its ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, revenue division, car supply and locomotive availability, data exchange and communications, reciprocal switching, interchange, and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operations or services provided by connecting carriers, or in the Company's relationship with those connecting carriers, could result in CP's inability to meet customers' demands or require the Company to use alternate train routes, which could result in significant additional costs and network inefficiencies.The availability of qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company's operations. Changes in employee demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel, particularly locomotive engineers and trainpersons, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to meet demand for rail services. Unpredictable increases in the demand for rail services may increase the risk of having insufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, changes in operations and other technology improvements may significantly impact the number of employees required to meet the demand for rail services.Strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect the Company's operations. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labour unions. The majority of CP's employees belong to labour unions and are subject to these agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or the Company's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of the Company's operations and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, future national labour agreements, or provisions of labour agreements related to health care, could significantly increase the Company's costs for health and welfare benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and liquidity. The Company may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The Company by the nature of its operation is exposed to the potential for a variety of litigations, lawsuits and other claims, including personal injury claims, labour and employment, commercial and contract disputes, environmental liability, freight claims and property damage claims. In respect of workers' claims in Canada related to occupational health and safety, the Workers' Compensation Act (Canada) covers those matters. In the U.S., the Federal Employer's Liability Act ("FELA") is applicable to railroad employees. A provision for lawsuits or other claims will be accrued according to applicable accounting standards, reflecting the assessment of the actual damages incurred based upon the facts and circumstances known at the time. Any material changes to litigation trends, a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving freight loss, property damage, personal injury, environmental liability or other significant matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, in each case, to the extent not covered by insurance.The Company may be affected by acts of terrorism, war, risk of war or regulatory changes to combat the risk of terrorism or war. CP plays a critical role in the North American transportation system, and therefore could become the target for acts of terrorism or war. CP is also involved in the transportation of hazardous materials, which could result in CP equipment or infrastructure being direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Acts of terrorism, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war could cause significant business interruption losses to CP and may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Severe weather or natural disasters could result in significant business interruptions and costs to the Company. CP is exposed to severe weather conditions including earthquakes, floods, fires, avalanches, mudslides, extreme temperatures and significant precipitation that may cause business interruptions that can adversely affect the Company’s entire rail network and result in increased costs, increased liabilities and decreased revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Insurance maintained by the Company to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the Company's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of services, the Company may not be able to restore services without a significant interruption in operations.The Company relies on technology and technological improvements to operate its business. Information technology is critical to all aspects of CP’s business. If the Company were to experience a significant disruption or failure of one or more of the information technology or communications systems (either a result of an intentional cyber or malicious act or an unintentional error) it could result in service interruptions or other failures, misappropriation of confidential information and deficiencies, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. If CP is unable to acquire or implement new technology, the Company may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.15The state of capital markets could adversely affect the Company's liquidity. Weakness in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact the Company’s access to capital. From time to time, the Company relies on the capital markets to provide some of its capital requirements, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper. Significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets and the credit markets, or deterioration of the Company's financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or eliminate the Company's access to, and/or significantly increase the cost of, various financing sources, including bank credit facilities and issuance of corporate bonds. Instability or disruptions of the capital markets and deterioration of the Company's financial condition, alone or in combination, could also result in a reduction in the Company's credit rating to below investment grade, which could also further prohibit or restrict the Company from accessing external sources of short and long-term debt financing, and/or significantly increase the associated costs.Disruptions within the supply chain could negatively affect the Company's operational efficiencies and increase costs. The North American transportation system is integrated. CP’s operations and service may be negatively impacted by service disruptions of other transportation links, such as ports, handling facilities, customer facilities, and other railways. A prolonged service disruption at one of these entities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.The Company may be affected by fluctuating fuel prices. Fuel expense constitutes a significant portion of the Company’s operating costs. Fuel prices can be subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company currently recovers a significant amount of its fuel expenses from customers through fuel surcharge revenues, but the Company cannot be certain that it will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues. Factors affecting fuel prices include: worldwide oil demand, international politics, weather, refinery capacity, supplier and upstream outages, unplanned infrastructure failures, and labour and political instability. The Company is dependent on certain key suppliers of core railway equipment and materials that could result in increased price volatility or significant shortages of materials, which could adversely affect results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Due to the complexity and specialized nature of core railway equipment and infrastructure (including rolling stock equipment, locomotives, rail and ties), there can be a limited number of suppliers of rail equipment and materials available. Should these specialized suppliers cease production or experience capacity or supply shortages, this concentration of suppliers could result in CP experiencing cost increases or difficulty in obtaining rail equipment and materials, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, CP’s operations are dependent on the availability of diesel fuel. A significant fuel supply shortage arising from production decreases, increased demand in existing or emerging foreign markets, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position, and liquidity in a particular year or quarter. The Company may be directly and indirectly affected by the impacts of global climate change. The impact of global climate change may affect the Company both directly and indirectly. There is potential for significant impacts on CP's infrastructure due to changes in temperature and precipitation as well as increases in extreme weather events such as flooding and storms. These changes may result in substantial costs to respond during the event, recover from the event and possibly to modify existing or future infrastructure requirements to prevent recurrence. Government action to address climate change may involve both economic instruments such as carbon taxation as well as restrictions on economic sectors such as cap and trade. The Company is subject to carbon taxation systems in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates and there is a possibility in other jurisdictions in the future. As a significant consumer of diesel fuel, these carbon taxes increase the Company's business costs. While the Company is not currently subject to a cap on emissions, there is also a possibility in the future. Cap and trade programs or other government restrictions on certain market sectors can also impact current and potential customers including thermal coal and petroleum crude oil. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.16