Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions could adversely impact our financial performance. Although we believe the adverse worldwide and domestic economic conditions experienced over recent years are improving, the degree and pace of recovery is uncertain and is expected to vary around the globe. Worldwide and domestic economies remain subject to prolongation, exacerbation and expansion of adverse conditions. In addition, instability in global credit markets, including the uncertainty related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries in the European Union, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, and other disruptions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. We are subject to risks associated with adverse economic conditions, including economic slowdown, inflation, and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets. In addition, unfavorable global or domestic economic situations could adversely impact our major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products. We have a committed credit facility and 9 Table of Contents additional liquidity facilities available to us. While to date we have not experienced problems with accessing these facilities, to the extent that the financial institutions that participate in these facilities were to default on their obligation to fund, those funds would not be available to us. The timing and nature of any recovery in the financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future. A prolonged downturn, further worsening or broadening of adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies, or return of high levels of inflation could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products, and create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and for our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers. Depending upon their severity and duration, these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are not able to predict the pace of recovery of the economies in the United States (“U.S.”) and our other major markets outside the U.S. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisitions. In the future, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance further acquisitions, additional repurchases of shares of our stock, and other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance. We do not have complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service requirements and to fund our general corporate capital requirements. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences to you. These consequences include, or may include, the following: • Our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; • Our funds available for operations, expansion or distributions will be reduced because we will dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; • Our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and • Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited. Restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility and in our indentures place limits on our ability to conduct our business. Covenants in our senior credit facility include those that restrict our ability to make acquisitions, incur debt, create liens, sell assets, pay dividends, engage in mergers and consolidations, enter into transactions with affiliates, make investments and permit our subsidiaries to enter into certain restrictive agreements. It additionally contains certain financial covenants, including a debt ratio test and an interest coverage ratio test. Covenants in our indentures are generally less restrictive than our senior credit facility but nevertheless, among other things, limit our ability under certain circumstances to create liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions and impose conditions on our ability to engage in mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These agreements also contain certain change of control provisions which, if triggered, may result in an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Our senior credit facility has a specific term of years and we will have to enter into a new facility or a renewal facility on or before the June 2013 maturation of the revolving portion of the senior credit facility. While we have been exploring a variety of alternatives in the credit and debt markets, there can be no assurance that the 10 Table of Contents rate of interest, terms and covenants or other obligations that would be contained within any replacement facility will be equal to or better than those under our current senior credit facility. A refinancing on less advantageous terms may adversely affect our business and reduce our profitability. Our acquisition, divestiture and joint venture strategies may not be successful. We have made a number of acquisitions and divestitures. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business and that we may divest ourselves of businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe no longer provide a strategic fit with our business. We will need to integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations; our overall internal control over financial reporting processes; and our financial, operations and information systems. We cannot assure you that we will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or realize anticipated operational synergies. Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies into our existing operations or separating from our existing operations the operations and personnel of businesses of which we divest may result in difficulties, significant expense and accounting charges, disrupt our business or divert management’s time and attention. We recently acquired the remaining 50.1% interest in Ruffino S.r.l. and sold our value spirits business, our U.K. cider business, and 80.1% of our Australian and U.K. business. In connection with the integration of acquired operations, the separation of divested businesses, or the conduct of our overall business strategies, we may periodically restructure our businesses, integrate or separate our financial, operations and/or information systems, reorganize the management and reporting relationships within our business and/or sell assets or portions of our business. We may not achieve expected cost savings or efficiencies from restructuring activities or realize the expected proceeds from sales of assets or portions of our business. Actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. We may provide various indemnifications in connection with the sale of assets or portions of our business. Additionally, our final determinations and appraisals of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates. We cannot assure you that the fair value of acquired businesses will remain constant. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the U.S., we may enter into derivative contracts to purchase foreign currency in order to hedge against the risk of foreign currency fluctuations in connection with such acquisitions or joint venture investments. This would subject us to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations associated with such derivative contracts. We have also acquired or retained equity or membership interests in companies which we do not control, such as our retained less than 20% interest in certain companies that comprised our Australian and U.K. business. The other parties that hold the remaining equity or membership interests in these types of companies may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of those companies. The arrangements through which we acquired or hold our equity or membership interests may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to purchase other parties’ interests. Our failure to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisition, or the failure of an entity in which we have an equity or membership interest, could adversely affect our financial condition or our valuation of these types of investments. We have entered into joint ventures, including our joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. (“Modelo”) and our holdings in Opus One Winery LLC, and we may enter into additional joint ventures. We share control of our joint ventures. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our failure or the failure of an entity in which we have a joint venture interest to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that any of our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures will be profitable or that forecasts regarding joint venture activities will be accurate. In particular, risks and uncertainties associated with our joint ventures include, among others, the joint venture’s ability to operate its business successfully, the joint venture’s ability to develop appropriate standards, controls, procedures and policies for the growth and management of the joint venture, and the strength of the joint venture’s relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption or the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitor’s products instead of our products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitor’s products. Unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or marketing expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons. An increase in import and excise duties or other taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S., Canada and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The U.S. federal budget and individual state, provincial or local municipal budget deficits could result in increased taxes on our products, business, customers or consumers. Various proposals to increase taxes on beverage alcohol products have been made at the federal and state or provincial level in recent years. Many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. There may be further consideration by federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental entities to increase taxes upon beverage alcohol products as governmental entities explore available alternatives for raising funds during the current macroeconomic climate. In addition, federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, warehousing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal, state or provincial regulations also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Benefit cost increases could reduce our profitability. Our profitability is affected by employee medical costs and other employee benefits. In recent years, employee medical costs have increased due to factors such as the increase in health care costs in the U.S. These factors, plus the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in March 2010, will continue to put pressure on our business and financial performance due to higher employee benefit costs. Although we actively seek to control increases in employee benefit costs and encourage employees to maintain healthy lifestyles to reduce future potential medical costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued employee benefit cost increases could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We also sponsor a very limited number of defined benefit plans that cover a limited number of our non-U.S. employees. Our costs of providing defined benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as 12 Table of Contents discount rates, the rates of return on the plans’ assets, exchange rate fluctuations, future governmental regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. Without sustained growth in pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans’ assets, and depending upon the other factors relating to worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions, we could be required to increase funding for some or all of our defined benefit plans. We rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers and government agencies for the success of our business. Local market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide. In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets including grocery stores, club and discount stores, package liquor stores and restaurants and also directly to government agencies, while in Canada, we sell our products principally to government agencies. In the U.S., we have entered into exclusive arrangements with certain wholesalers that generate a large portion of our U.S. net sales and we are looking to enter into a limited additional number of exclusive wholesaler arrangements in additional areas of the U.S. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels, particularly in the U.S. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this changing environment, our net income, market share and volume growth could be negatively affected. In addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors. In the future, our wholesalers and retailers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. Our business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products we sell. While over the past several years there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol in most of our product categories and geographic markets, there have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the U.S. and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • A general decline in economic or geopolitical conditions; • Concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; • A general decline in the consumption of beverage alcohol products in on-premise establishments, such as may result from smoking bans and stricter laws related to driving while under the influence of alcohol; • Consumer dietary preferences favoring lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, sports drinks and water products; • The increased activity of anti-alcohol groups; • Increased federal, state, provincial or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products and possible restrictions on beverage alcohol advertising and marketing; and • Increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products. 13 Table of Contents We are primarily a branded consumer products company and we rely on consumers’ demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic or social trends, public health policies, and changes in leisure, dining and beverage consumption patterns. Our continued success will require us to anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in consumer behavior and drinking tastes. If consumer preferences were to move away from our premium brands in any of our major markets, our financial results might be adversely affected. Other factors may also reduce consumer spending on our products, including economic declines, inflation, a trend towards frugality even as the economy improves, wars, pandemics, weather, and natural or man-made disasters. As the cost of gasoline and other petroleum-based products increases, consumers may not have as much discretionary funds available to buy our products. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products. The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands and our reputation. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write-offs and other costs. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity of grapes or other agricultural raw materials. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes and other agricultural raw materials available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers or suppliers of other agricultural raw materials will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or fields or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production. Growing agricultural raw materials also requires adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. We generally purchase raw materials under short-term supply contracts, we are subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape-related materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. Our business is heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes, grape juice concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from third-party suppliers. We could experience raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers. Increases in the costs of raw materials also directly affect us. In the past, we have experienced dramatic increases in the cost of grapes. Although we believe we have adequate sources of grape supplies, we could experience shortages if the demand for particular wine products exceeds expectations. The wine industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a severe oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers, including ourselves, to raise prices is limited, and, in certain situations, the competitive environment may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes at lower costs, a producer’s selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products can rise in such an environment. Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. In the U.S. and Canada, glass bottles have only a small number of producers. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations and another producer supplies substantially all of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business, operations or financial performance, and water scarcity or poor quality could negatively impact our production costs and capacity. Our business depends upon agricultural activity and natural resources. There has been much public discussion related to concerns that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Severe weather events and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our agricultural raw materials such as grapes. Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase the cost of goods for our products. Severe weather events or changes in the frequency or intensity of weather events can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers and consumers. Water is essential in the production of our products. The quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of grapes and our ability to operate our business. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and if climate patterns change and droughts become more severe, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality which may affect our production costs or impose capacity constraints. Such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations subject us to risks relating to doing business globally, currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations, and geopolitical uncertainty, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to our operations in the U.S., we have operations in Canada, New Zealand and Italy, our products are produced in various countries around the world and we sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruptions caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, local labor conditions and changes in laws, governmental regulations and policies in many countries outside the U.S. We are also subject to U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws, anti-corruption laws and laws regarding the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome the challenges we encounter with respect to these factors and other matters generally affecting U.S. companies with global operations. We are also exposed to risks associated with currency fluctuations and risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. Currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in the markets in which we do business have fluctuated in recent years and are likely to continue to do so in the future. We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks. We could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or manage fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks. We could also be affected by nationalizations or unstable governments or legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. These currency, economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers, affect our global operations. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, and if we are required to write-down any of these intangible assets, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2011, and February 28, 2010, we recorded impairment losses of $38.1 million, $23.6 million and $103.2 million, respectively, on certain of our intangible assets. We continue to have a significant amount of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks and may acquire more intangible assets in the future. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance for intangibles – goodwill and other, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation. Reductions in our net income caused by the write-down of any of these intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents The termination of our joint venture with Modelo relating to importing, marketing and selling imported beer could have a material adverse effect on our business. On January 2, 2007, we participated in establishing and commencing operations of a joint venture with Modelo, pursuant to which Corona Extra and the other Modelo Brands are imported, marketed and sold by the joint venture in the U.S. (including the District of Columbia) and Guam. Pursuant to the joint venture and related importation arrangements, the joint venture will continue for an initial term of 10 years, and renew in 10-year periods unless GModelo Corporation, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of Diblo, gives notice prior to the end of year seven of any term of its intention to purchase our interest we hold through our subsidiary, Constellation Beers Ltd. (“Constellation Beers”). The joint venture may also terminate under other circumstances involving action by governmental authorities, certain changes in control of us or Constellation Beers as well as in connection with certain breaches of the importation and related sub-license agreements, after notice and cure periods. The termination of the joint venture by acquisition of Constellation Beers’ interest or for other reasons noted above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse, the misuse of alcohol, product liability, or marketing or sales practices could adversely affect our business. There has been public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. We also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices. Adverse developments in lawsuits concerning these types of matters or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials obtained from suppliers, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Although we maintain standards for the materials and product components we receive from our suppliers, and we also audit our suppliers’ compliance with our standards, it is possible that a supplier may not provide materials or product components which meet our required standards or may falsify documentation associated with the fulfillment of those requirements. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, is misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability and incur additional costs. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Our reputation could be impacted negatively by public perception, adverse publicity (whether or not valid), or our responses relating to: • A perceived failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; • A perceived failure to address concerns related to the quality, safety or integrity of our products; • Our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water and energy use and waste management; or • Efforts that are perceived as insufficient to promote the responsible use of alcohol. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls, to provide accurate and timely financial statement information, or to protect our information systems against service 16 Table of Contents interruptions, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation, competitive position and brand equity. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position and brand equity. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly-developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. Contamination could harm the integrity of or consumer support for our brands and adversely affect the sales of our products. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our wine and spirits products or defects in the distillation or fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. An increase in the cost of energy or the cost of environmental regulatory compliance could affect our profitability. We have experienced increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance, including fees, licenses, and the cost of capital improvements to our operating facilities in order to meet environmental regulatory requirements. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices. In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or in connection with historical activities of businesses we acquire. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants in our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our projections or otherwise have an adverse effect upon our business reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance upon third party global networks means we could experience breaches of security or interruptions to our business services. We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, 17 Table of Contents processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with all large information technology systems, our systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential or proprietary information, corrupting our information, disrupting our business processes, or engaging in the unauthorized use of strategic information about us or our employees, customers or consumers. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in the loss of assets or revenues, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation, or the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have outsourced various functions to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future. We rely on those third-party service providers to provide services on a timely and effective basis. Although we closely monitor the performance of these third parties and maintain contingency plans in case they are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control their performance. Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis. Changes in accounting standards and guidance and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting guidance that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretations of existing guidance, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board continue to work towards a convergence of accounting standards. Certain standards may become applicable to us and change the interpretation of existing guidance. Such events could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in indirect taxes could affect our products’ affordability and therefore reduce our sales. We are also subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. Changes in tax laws, tax rates or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the mix of pretax income or loss among the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. We must exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, interest and penalties; accordingly, future events could change management’s assessment of these amounts. Risks generally associated with building and sustaining our information technology infrastructure or implementation of our integrated technology platform may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken a comprehensive, multi-year business transformation initiative that we call Project Fusion. Project Fusion is our effort to create, design, implement and migrate certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution intended to improve our reporting capabilities and cost efficiencies. It is a planned initiative that includes an integrated technology platform intended to improve the accessibility of information, the visibility of global data, further enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Enterprise resource planning system projects, such as Project Fusion, are complex and time-consuming projects that can involve substantial expenditures for system hardware, software, management focus and implementation activities that can continue for several years. There can be no certainty that Project Fusion will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver system and process upgrades on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to increased costs, business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. Project Fusion includes an upgrade to our existing business accounting and journal entry system. This upgrade is being deployed for use throughout our company in various “go-live” phases which began in the third 18 Table of Contents quarter of Fiscal 2012 and are planned to continue throughout Fiscal 2013. Upgrading an accounting system and conversion to a new information technology platform is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to the upgraded system, including potential loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Implementation risks also include a potential increase in costs, the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention and resources, and a potentially adverse effect on our operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage our business effectively. Throughout Project Fusion we have expended resources which are intended to properly and adequately address these issues and have instituted additional management controls relating to internal control over financial reporting and implementation risks. While Project Fusion is intended to further improve and enhance our information systems, it exposes us to the risks of integrating the system upgrades with our existing systems and processes. Disruption of our financial reporting could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 