Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 1 There is uncertainty regarding the value of our investments in restricted securities. Our net asset value is based on the values assigned to the various investments in our portfolio, determined in good faith by our board of directors. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities which do not have readily ascertainable market values, our fair value determinations may differ materially from the values a third party would be willing to pay for such securities or the values which would be applicable to unrestricted securities having a public market. We are subject to additional risks in light of the restatement of our prior period consolidated financial statements. We have restated our consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2007 and all years represented in our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007 due to material weakness we identified in our internal controls over accounting for taxes. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements could expose us to legal actions. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the restatement and negative reactions from shareholders and others with whom we do business. The lack of liquidity of our restricted securities may adversely affect our business. Our portfolio contains many securities which are subject to restrictions on sale because they were acquired from issuers in "private placement" transactions or because we are deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. Unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 is available, we will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under applicable federal and state securities laws. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict our ability to liquidate our securities in portfolio companies, because we may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer's outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by unfavorable market conditions. The illiquidity of our investments may preclude or delay the disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments. There is limited publicly available information regarding the companies in which we invest. Many of the securities in our portfolio are issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and we must rely on the diligence of our management to obtain the information necessary for our decision to invest. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. Certain of our portfolio companies are highly leveraged. Many of our portfolio companies have incurred substantial indebtedness in relation to their overall capital base. Such indebtedness often has a term that will require the balance of the loan to be refinanced when it matures. If portfolio companies cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on their indebtedness, the value of our investments could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company's assets or by the portfolio company's reorganization or bankruptcy. Fluctuations may occur in our quarterly results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our portfolio companies' markets, the ability to find and close suitable investments, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. 2 We may not continue to qualify for pass-through tax treatment. We may not qualify for conduit tax treatment as a Regulated Investment Company ("RIC") if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to satisfy such requirements and cease to qualify for conduit tax treatment, we will be subject to federal taxes on our net investment income. To the extent we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish reserves for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value accordingly. In addition, if we, as a RIC, were to decide to make a deemed distribution of net realized capital gains and retain the net realized capital gain, we would have to establish appropriate reserves for taxes, at the end of the tax year, that we would have to pay on behalf of our shareholders. The loss of this pass-through tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. Historically, we have distributed net investment income semi-annually. Our current intention is to continue these distributions of ordinary income to our shareholders. Also, historically, we have retained net realized capital gains, paid the resulting tax at the corporate level and retained the after-tax gains to supplement our equity capital and support continuing additions to our portfolio. Our shareholders then report such capital gains on their tax returns, receive credit for the tax we paid and are deemed to have reinvested the amount of the retained after-tax gain. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a RIC tax status that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or our shareholders' current tax treatment of realized and retained capital gains. Investment in shares of our common stock should not be considered a complete investment program. Our stock is intended for investors seeking long-term capital appreciation. Our investments in portfolio securities generally require many years to reach maturity, and such investments generally are illiquid. An investment in our shares should not be considered a complete investment program. Each prospective purchaser should take into account his or her investment objectives as well as his or her other investments when considering the purchase of our shares. Our common stock often trades at a discount from net asset value. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Market ("NASDAQ"). Shareholders desiring liquidity may sell their shares on NASDAQ at current market value, which has often been below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at discounts from net asset value, which is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that a fund's performance will cause its net asset value to decrease. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. Sustaining growth depends on our ability to identify, evaluate, finance, and invest in companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing such results on a cost-effective basis is a function of our marketing capabilities and skillful management of the investment process. Failure to achieve future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent upon management for our future success. Selection, structuring and closing our investments depends upon the diligence and skill of our management, which is responsible for identifying, evaluating, negotiating, monitoring and disposing of our investments. Our management's capabilities may significantly impact our results of operations. If we lose any member of our management team and he/she cannot be promptly replaced with an equally capable team member, our results of operations could be significantly impacted. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for attractive investment opportunities with private equity funds, venture capital partnerships and corporations, venture capital affiliates of industrial and financial companies, SBICs and wealthy individuals. Some of these competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources, 3 and some are subject to different and frequently less stringent regulation. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our objectives. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to business development companies such as ours. Failure to deploy new capital may reduce our return on equity. If we fail to invest our capital effectively, our return on equity may be decreased, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including our investment results, market conditions, and other influences and events over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to Item 1B. 