Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. In addition to other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, investors should consider the following information before making an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS The current state of the economy and financial markets increases the likelihood of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. Continued economic adversity could impair our portfolio companies’ financial position and operating results and affect the industries in which we invest, which could, in turn, harm our operating results. The broader economic fundamentals of the U.S. economy remain at depressed levels. Unemployment levels remain elevated and consumer fundamentals remain depressed, which has led to significant reductions in spending by both consumers and businesses. In the event that the U.S. economy remains depressed, it is likely that the financial results of small to mid-size companies, like those in which we invest, could experience deterioration or limited growth from current levels, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting their debt service requirements and increase in defaults. In addition, the end markets for certain of our portfolio companies’ products and services have experienced negative economic trends. We are seeing reduced operating results at some of the portfolio companies due to the general economic difficulties and we expect this trend to continue in 2012. Consequently, we can provide no assurance that the performance of certain of our portfolio companies will not be negatively impacted by these economic and other conditions, which could also have a negative impact on our future results. 11 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE Our investment portfolio is and will continue to be recorded at fair value, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our estimate of fair value and, as a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by us, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our estimate of fair value. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we have invested and generally will continue to invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value based on inputs from management and our investment team, along with the oversight, review and approval of our Board of Directors. The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized gains and losses in our portfolio, are to a certain degree, subjective and dependent on a valuation process approved by our Board of Directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining fair value of our investments include external events, such as private mergers, sales and acquisitions involving comparable companies. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities which do not have readily ascertainable market values, our fair value determinations may differ materially from the values a third party would be willing to pay for such securities or the values which would be applicable to unrestricted securities having a public market. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to be materially understated or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our common stock based on an overstated net asset value may pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling shares during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments may receive a lower price for their shares than the value of our investments might warrant. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and deploy capital. Our ability to achieve our investment objective of maximizing our portfolio’s total return by generating income from our debt investments and capital appreciation from our equity and equity-related investments, depends on our ability to effectively manage and deploy capital, which depends, in turn, on our investment team’s ability to identify, evaluate and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing our investment objective on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment team’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and effective services and our access to investments offering acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our investment team are called upon, from time to time, to provide managerial assistance to some of our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them and slow the rate of investment. 12 Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described herein, it could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends. Sustaining growth depends on our ability to identify, evaluate, finance, and invest in companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing such results on a cost-effective basis is a function of our marketing capabilities and skillful management of the investment process. Failure to achieve future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described herein, it could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends. If we fail to invest our capital effectively, our return on equity may be decreased, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for attractive investment opportunities with private equity funds, venture capital partnerships and corporations, venture capital affiliates of industrial and financial companies, SBICs and wealthy individuals. Some of these competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and some are subject to different and frequently less stringent regulations. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our objectives. A significant increase in the number and/or size of our competitors in our target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. We are dependent upon management for our future success. Selection, structuring and closing our investments depends upon the diligence and skill of our management, which is responsible for identifying, evaluating, negotiating, monitoring and disposing of our investments. Our management’s capabilities may significantly impact our results of operations. If we lose any member of our management team and he/she cannot be promptly replaced with an equally capable team member, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Our growth will require that we retain new investment and administrative personnel in a competitive environment. Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. 13 The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require us to take certain measures to ensure that we are able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of our overall compensation packages, altering the structure of our compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation, or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships, and our inability to maintain or develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that members of our management team will maintain their relationships with intermediaries, financial institutions, investment bankers, commercial bankers, financial advisors, attorneys, accountants, consultants and other individuals within our network, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our management team fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom members of our management team have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements: · The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Depending on the level of taxable income earned in a tax year, we may choose to carry forward taxable income in excess of current year distributions into the next year and pay a 4% excise tax on such income. Any such carryover taxable income must be distributed through a dividend declared prior to filing the final tax return related to the year which generated such taxable income. · The source of income requirement will be satisfied if we obtain 90% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. · The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S Government securities, securities of other RIC’s, and other acceptable securities; no more that 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S Government securities or securities of other RIC’s, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” 14 Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain unqualified investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. If we fail to maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, to the extent we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish deferred tax liabilities for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value accordingly. In addition, our shareholders would lose the tax credit realized when we, as a RIC, decide to retain the net realized capital gain and make deemed distributions of net realized capital gains, and pay taxes on behalf of our shareholders at the end of the tax year. The loss of this pass-through tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. We may not be able to pay you dividends, our dividends may not grow over time, and a portion of our dividends paid to you may be a return of capital. We intend to pay semi-annual dividends to our shareholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to pay a specified level of cash dividends, previously projected dividends for future periods, or year-to-year increases in cash dividends. Our ability to pay dividends might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could limit our ability to pay dividends. All dividends will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, CSVC’s compliance with applicable SBIC regulations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends to our shareholders in the future. Historically, we have distributed net investment income via semi-annual dividends. Our current intention is to continue these distributions of ordinary income to our shareholders. Historically, we have retained net realized capital gains, paid the resulting tax at the corporate level and retained the after-tax gains to supplement our equity capital and support continuing additions to our portfolio. Our shareholders then report such capital gains on their tax returns, receive credit for the tax we paid and are deemed to have reinvested the amount of the retained after-tax gain. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a RIC tax status that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or our shareholders’ current tax treatment of realized and retained capital gains. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under an IRS revenue procedure, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend declared on or before December 31, 2012 with respect to taxable years ended on or before December 31, 2011 could be payable in our stock. Where the IRS revenue procedure is not currently applicable, the IRS has also issued private letter rulings on cash and stock dividends paid by RICs and real estate investment trusts using a 20% cash standard (and, more recently, the 10% cash standard of the above-referenced IRS revenue procedure) if certain requirements are satisfied. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distributions is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 15 Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our net ordinary income to our shareholders to maintain our status as a RIC, we may need additional capital to finance our growth, and regulations governing our operation as a BDC will affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to a RIC and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we intend to distribute to our shareholders substantially all of our net ordinary income. We may carry forward excess undistributed taxable income into the next year, net of the 4% excise tax. Any such carryover taxable income must be distributed through a dividend declared prior to filing the final tax return related to the year which generated such taxable income. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to BDCs such as ours. Terrorist attacks, act of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investing in our portfolio companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies: · may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of our portfolio companies that we may have obtained in connection with our investment, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of the equity components of our investments; · may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or significant customer concentrations than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 16 · are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation, termination, or significant under-performance of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and in turn, on us; · may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and · may have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. We are required to rely on the ability of our management team and investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision and may lose all or part of our investment. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management’s time and resources. The lack of liquidity of our restricted securities may adversely affect our business. Our portfolio contains many securities which are subject to restrictions on sale because they were acquired from issuers in "private placement" transactions or because we are deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. Unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 is available, we will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under applicable federal and state securities laws. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict our ability to liquidate our securities in portfolio companies because we may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by unfavorable market conditions. The illiquidity of our investments may preclude or delay the disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment. 17 Certain of our portfolio companies are highly leveraged. Some of our portfolio companies have incurred substantial indebtedness in relation to their overall capital base. Such indebtedness often has a term that will require the balance of the loan to be refinanced when it matures. If portfolio companies cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on their indebtedness, the value of our investments could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company’s assets or by the portfolio company’s reorganization or bankruptcy. Defaults by our portfolio companies may harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to non-payment of interest and other defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. There is limited publicly available information regarding the companies in which we invest. Many of the securities in our portfolio are issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and we must rely on the diligence of our management to obtain the information necessary for our decision to invest. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Investment in shares of our common stock should not be considered a complete investment program. Our stock is intended for investors seeking long-term capital appreciation. Our investments in portfolio securities generally require many years to reach maturity, and such investments generally are illiquid. An investment in our shares should not be considered a complete investment program. Each prospective purchaser should take into account his or her investment objectives as well as his or her other investments when considering the purchase of our shares. Our common stock often trades at a discount from net asset value. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market ("NASDAQ"). Shareholders desiring liquidity may sell their shares on NASDAQ at current market value, which has often been below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at discounts from net asset value, which is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that a fund’s performance will cause its net asset value to decrease. 18 The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including: · our investment results; · market conditions; · departure of our key personnel; · changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs, BDCs or SBICs; and · other influences and events over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to Item 1B. 