Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider the following information before making an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below could adversely affect the material risks we face. Risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Future adverse market and economic conditions could cause harm to our operating results. Past recessions have had a significant negative impact on the operating performance and fair value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio companies could be adversely impacted again by any future economic downturn or recession and may be unable to be sold at a price that would allow us to recover our investment, or may be unable to operate during such recession. Such portfolio company performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE Our investment portfolio is and will continue to be recorded at fair value. Our Board of Directors has final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our fair value determination. As a result of recording our investments at fair value, there is and will continue to be subjectivity as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by us, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our fair value determination. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we have invested and will continue to invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value based on inputs from management and our investment team, along with the oversight, review and approval of our Board of Directors. 11 Table of Contents The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized gains and losses in our portfolio, are to a certain degree, subjective and dependent on a valuation process approved by our Board of Directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include external events, such as private mergers, sales and acquisitions involving comparable companies. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities which do not have readily ascertainable market values, our fair value determinations may differ materially from the values a third party would be willing to pay for such securities or the values which would be applicable to unrestricted securities having a public market. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our common stock based on an overstated net asset value may pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling shares during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments may receive a lower price for their shares than the value of our investments might warrant. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to effectively allocate and manage capital. Our ability to achieve our investment objective of maximizing our portfolio’s total return by generating appreciation from our investments depends on our ability to effectively allocate and manage capital. Capital allocation depends, in part, upon our investment team’s ability to identify, evaluate, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing our investment objectives is largely a function of our investment team’s management of the investment process and our access to investments offering attractive risk adjusted returns. In addition, members of our investment team are called upon, from time to time, to provide managerial assistance to some of our portfolio companies. The results of our operations depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Our ability to make new investments at attractive relative valuations is also a function of our marketing and our management of the investment process. If we fail to invest our capital effectively, our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of the shares of our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for attractive investment opportunities with other financial institutions, including business development companies, junior capital lenders, and banks. Some of these competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and some are subject to different, and frequently less stringent, regulations. Our anticipated spin-off of 60.4% of our total net asset value will increase any size advantages our competitors may enjoy. Our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our objectives. A significant increase in the number and/or size of our competitors in our target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Sourcing, selection, structuring and closing our investments depends upon the diligence and skill of our management. Our management’s capabilities may significantly impact our results of operations. Our success requires that we retain investment and operations personnel in a competitive environment. Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors, including but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require us to take certain measures to ensure that we are able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of our overall compensation packages, altering the structure of our compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships. Our inability to maintain or develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that members of our management team will maintain their relationships with intermediaries, financial institutions, investment bankers, commercial bankers, financial advisors, attorneys, accountants, consultants and other individuals within our network, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our management team fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to effectively allocate capital. Individuals with whom members of our management team have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. In addition, following the spin-off, we may face new challenges in maintaining or cultivating these relationships and investment opportunities due to our smaller size or the loss of part of our management team in the spin-off. Any unrealized losses we experience may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available to make distributions. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors pursuant to a valuation methodology approved by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized losses. An unrealized loss could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations or generate cash flow. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available to pay dividends or interest and principal on our securities and could have a material adverse effect on your investment. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements: · The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses. Depending on the level of taxable income earned in a tax year, we may choose to carry forward taxable income in excess of current year distributions into the next year and pay a 4% excise tax on such income. Any such carryover taxable income must be distributed through a dividend declared prior to filing the final tax return related to the year that generated such taxable income. 13 Table of Contents · The source of income requirement will be satisfied if we obtain 90% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. · The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities. In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S Government securities or securities of other RICs, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in us having to dispose of certain unqualified investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. If we fail to maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, to the extent we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish deferred tax liabilities for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value accordingly. In addition, our shareholders would lose the tax credit realized when we, as a RIC, decide to retain the net realized capital gain and make deemed distributions of net realized capital gains, and pay taxes on behalf of our shareholders at the end of the tax year. The loss of this pass-through tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return of an investment in our common stock. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable by us in cash or in shares of stock (at the stockholders election) would satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement. The IRS has issued private letter rulings providing that a dividend payable in stock or in cash at the election of the stockholders will be treated as a taxable dividend eligible for the dividends paid deduction provided that at least 20% of the total dividend is payable in cash and certain other requirements are satisfied. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such dividend is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividends payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 14 Table of Contents Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to laws and regulations at the local, state and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to BDCs such as us. Terrorist attacks, act of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic or global economy. These events could create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: · sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; · natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; · disease pandemics; · events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and · cyber attacks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our investments in portfolio companies involve a number of significant risks: · Portfolio companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of key employees. Therefore, the death, disability, resignation, termination, or significant under-performance of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. · Portfolio companies may have unpredictable operating results, could become parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. 15 Table of Contents · Portfolio companies may fail to satisfy financial, operating or other covenants imposed by us or other lenders, which could lead to a default and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets. These events could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations, including under the debt or equity securities we hold. We may also incur expenses to the extent necessary to recover upon a default or to negotiate new terms with the defaulting portfolio company. · Most of our acquisition targets are private companies. Private companies may not have readily publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. Consequently, we rely on the ability of our management team and investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from making acquisitions for both CSWC and our existing portfolio companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these acquisition targets, we may not make a fully informed investment decision and may lose all or part of our investment. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds for claims in excess of our directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management’s time and resources. As a Regulated Investment Company, we may have certain regulatory restrictions that could preclude us from making additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment or make follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment. Certain of our portfolio companies are leveraged. Some of our portfolio companies have incurred some indebtedness in relation to their overall capital base. Such indebtedness often has terms that will require the balance of the loan to be refinanced when it matures. If portfolio companies cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on their indebtedness, the value of our investments could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company’s assets or by the portfolio company’s reorganization or bankruptcy. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We invest, and will continue to invest, in portfolio companies whose securities are not publicly traded. These securities are generally subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments and, as a result, we may suffer losses. 16 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Investing in shares of our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a higher amount of risk, volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. Our common stock often trades at a discount from net asset value. Our common stock is listed on NASDAQ. Shareholders desiring liquidity may sell their shares on NASDAQ at current market value, which has often been below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at discounts from net asset value, which is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that a fund’s performance will cause its net asset value to decrease. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including: · market conditions; · our investment results; · trading volume of our stock; · our investment results; · departure of our key personnel; · changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs, BDCs or SBICs; and · other influences and events over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. We may not pay any dividends. While we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders out of assets legally available for distribution, there can be no assurance that we will do so. Any dividends that we do pay may be payable in cash, in our stock, or in stock in any of our holdings or in a combination of all three. All dividends will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, and compliance with applicable BDC regulations. Our net asset value is heavily concentrated on certain companies. As of March 31, 2015, more than 50% of our net asset value is comprised of The RectorSeal Corporation and The Whitmore Manufacturing Company, which we have announced our intention to spin off into a separate company as described below in more detail under “Risks Related to the Spin-off of Industrial Co.” Changes in key customers, major suppliers and product lines of these companies could adversely impact the operating results of these companies and thus could materially adversely affect our net asset value and stock price. Additionally, we may face challenges in selling some or all of the securities of any portfolio company over which we maintain control. These difficulties could result in our receiving less than we have valued for the investment,, which may cause us to suffer losses. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATION AS A BDC Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we generally are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain "joint" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE SPIN-OFF OF INDUSTRIAL CO. Risks Relating to the Share Distribution We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. We believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, more focused management and an enhanced ability to pursue our business strategy, which we expect as a result of the spin-off of our coatings, sealants and adhesives, chemical specialties and industrial products businesses into a standalone, publicly traded company (“Industrial Co.”), which will be effected by a special dividend of Industrial Co.’s common stock to CSWC shareholders (the “Share Distribution”). However, we may not realize the assumed benefits of the spin-off. In addition, we will incur one-time costs in connection with the spin-off that may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize as a result of the spin-off. If we do not realize the assumed benefits of the spin-off or if our costs exceed our estimates, then we could suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Potential indemnification liabilities of CSWC to Industrial Co. could materially adversely affect us. Future agreements between CSWC and Industrial Co. will provide for indemnification obligations designed to make CSWC financially responsible for liabilities that may exist relating to or arising out of its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Share Distribution. If CSWC is required to indemnify Industrial Co. for any reason, CSWC may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with Industrial Co.’s separation from CSWC, Industrial Co. will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities or that Industrial Co.’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. We expect Industrial Co. will agree to indemnify us for certain liabilities, including certain tax liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Industrial Co. will agree to retain, and there can be no assurance that Industrial Co. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Industrial Co. any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from Industrial Co. If the Share Distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. A condition to the Share Distribution is CSWC’s receipt of an opinion from the accounting firm of KPMG substantially to the effect that the Share Distribution should qualify as tax free under Sections 355, 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the Code. An opinion of an accounting firm is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Share Distribution that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. The opinion will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from CSWC and Industrial Co. regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters, which, if incomplete, incorrect or not satisfied, could alter KPMG’s conclusions. If the Share Distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, it could be treated as a taxable dividend to you for U.S. federal income tax purposes and you could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, CSWC would recognize a taxable gain to the extent that the fair market value of Industrial Co. common stock exceeds CSWC’s tax basis in such stock on the date of the Share Distribution. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions after the Share Distribution. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions will be limited or restricted after the Share Distribution in order to preserve the tax-free status of the Share Distribution to CSWC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even if the Share Distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment to CSWC's stockholders under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to CSWC under section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our common stock or CSWC’s common stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Share Distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of CSWC’s common stock within two years before the Share Distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common stock or Industrial Co.’s common stock within two years after the Share Distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Industrial Co. may be able to rebut that presumption. If an acquisition or issuance of shares of our common stock or Industrial Co.’s common stock triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, CSWC would recognize a taxable gain to the extent the fair market value of Industrial Co.’s common stock exceeds our tax basis in Industrial Co.’s common stock at the time of the Share Distribution. Following the spin-off, the value of your shares of common stock in: (a) CSWC and (b) Industrial Co. may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than what the combined Company’s common stock might trade at had the spin-off not occurred. While we believe the spin-off will benefit our shareholders, the common stock of: (a) CSWC and (b) Industrial Co. that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which the combined Company’s common stock might have traded at had the spin-off not occurred. The reason for this includes the future performance of either CSWC or Industrial Co. as separate, independent companies, and the future shareholder base and market for CSWC’s common shares and Industrial Co.’s common stock and the prices at which these stocks individually trade. RISKS RELATED TO CAPITAL SOUTHWEST FOLLOWING THE SPIN-OFF Capital Southwest is spinning off 60.4% of our net asset value to Industrial Co. Our historical financial statements are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone publicly-traded company and therefore may not be indicative of our future performance. Capital Southwest is spinning off 60.4% of our net asset value to Industrial Co. We will emerge from the spin-off with a significantly different company profile. Our historical financial statements included in this Form 10-K for the periods are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-along publicly traded company with a smaller market footprint. Accordingly, this data may not be indicative of our future performance, or necessarily reflect what our financial position and results of operations or cash flows would have been, had we operated as a separate, stand-alone publicly-traded entity during all of the periods presented. Prior to the spin-off, we have not previously operated as an independent company with a primary focus on debt investments. Prior to the spin-off, we had not previously operated as an independent public company with a primary focus on debt investments, and our management has limited experience, as a group, in operating our business as a stand-alone entity. Following the spin-off, we will be responsible for arranging our own funding, managing all of our own administrative and employee arrangements and supervising all of our legal and financial affairs, including publicly reported financial statements, without the use of the assets of Industrial Co. and without the assistance of key members of our current management. We anticipate that our success in these endeavors will depend substantially upon the ability of our Board of Directors, senior management and other key employees to work together after the spin-off to implement our focused debt investment strategy. 20 Table of Contents Accordingly, there is no assurance that as an independent company, our aggregate results of operations will continue at the same level as in the past or we will fully implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 