Item 1A. Risk Factors Current and potential shareholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, could negatively affect the Company’s revenues, profitability or cash flows in the future. These factors include: Risks Relating to Our Business • Our future operating results remain difficult to predict. We continue to face many risks and uncertainties which could affect our operating results, including, without limitation, those described below. • Although we had net income of $2,222,000 in fiscal year 2009, we have incurred significant net losses in every other year since our inception, including net losses of $1,309,000 for fiscal year 2008, $1,968,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, $2,295,000 for fiscal year 2006, and $1,097,000 for fiscal year 2005. As of September 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $8,272,000. • The Company has aggressive marketing plans that require the Company to spend substantial sums. The Company may need additional capital to continue our business plan. In addition, the Company may not accurately predict the amount of capital it requires to operate its existing and future business, which requirement may exceed the Company’s estimates. The failure by the Company to secure any additional financing which it may require may adversely affect its ability to grow. • We could experience significantly reduced profits if Medicare changes, delays or denies reimbursement or directs Medicare consumers to other companies through the process of competitive bidding, governmental contracts or any kind of nationwide managed care or governmental program. • Sales of a significant portion of our products depend on the continued availability of reimbursement of our customers by government and private insurance plans. Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. Without a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products, the result would be a reduction in our overall profit margin. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our overall profit margin unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our profits could also be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement. The regulations that govern Medicare reimbursement are complex and our compliance with these regulations may be reviewed by federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, and the Food and Drug Administration. These agencies conduct audits and periodic investigations of most companies billing Medicare. Negative findings or results of audits are subject to appeals and judicial review and are often overturned at various levels. There is always the possibility that the Company could be the subject of any audit or investigation as it performs a substantial amount of Medicare billing each year. The Company is regularly audited by all four regional Medicare carriers and has on some occasions had to reimburse claims previously paid. This type of reimbursement is common to all Medicare participants. Medicare audits or investigations could possibly lead to recoupment of monies paid to the Company, fines, off-sets on future payments and even loss of Medicare billing privileges. Since its inception, the Company has had no fines or penalties but the Company has been audited by all four regional Medicare carriers and from time-to-time been asked to repay amounts on claims previously paid for various reasons such as billing errors, lack of medical records in physician offices, insufficient patient diagnoses, returns, patient’s having similar equipment, patient not seen by physician recently enough, and lack of adequate medical necessity. Although the Company has set aside reserves for these repayments, demands for repayment could exceed Company reserves and the Company could be unable to pay them, which would adversely affect the Company. • We believe that we are able to control our level of expansion as well as the costs associated with the rapid growth which the Company presently plans. However, we cannot be sure that our existing staffing levels will be sufficient if we expand as rapidly as we currently believe. Further, (i) any expansion will create significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources; (ii) additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital; and (iii) our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support substantial expansion. 5 Table of Contents • Our ability to operate at a profit is highly dependent on recurring orders from customers, as to which there is no assurance. We generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order from a new customer for chronic care products and respiratory products, due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with initial customer qualification. Accordingly, the profitability of these product lines depends, in large part, on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, customer transition to extended care facilities, customer mortality and general economic conditions. • We could be liable for harm caused by products that we sell. The sale of medical products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims. A product liability claim could be expensive. While management believes that our insurance provides adequate coverage, no assurance can be made that adequate coverage will exist for these claims. • We could lose customers and revenues to new or existing competitors who have greater financial or operating resources. • Competition from other sellers of products sold by us is intense and expected to increase. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are large companies with well-known names and substantial resources. These companies may develop products and services that are more effective or less expensive than any that we are developing or selling. They may also promote and market these products more successfully than we promote and market our products. • Many of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of production or sales of our products or mandate a recall, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. • Our future results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: – changes in reimbursement guidelines and amounts; – changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry; – changes in the mix or cost of our products; – the timing of customer orders; – the timing and cost of our advertising campaigns; and – the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products and services offered by us or our competitors. • We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses and products. Acquisitions, if we embark on any type of acquisition, involve a number of risks that might adversely affect our financial and operational resources, including: – diversion of the attention of senior management from important business matters; – amortization of substantial intangible assets; – difficulty in retaining key personnel of an acquired business; – failure to assimilate operations of an acquired business; – failure to retain the customers of an acquired business; – possible operating losses and expenses of an acquired business; – exposure to legal claims for activities of an acquired business prior to acquisition; and – incurrence of debt and related interest expense. • The success of the Company will largely be dependent on Mark Libratore, the Company’s founder and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business. Loss of Mr. Libratore’s services, either through retirement, incapacity or death, may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has $4,000,000 of key man insurance on Mr. Libratore’s life, with the Company as the beneficiary of $3,000,000 and his wife, Cynthia Libratore, the beneficiary of $1,000,000. 6 Table of Contents • Our indebtedness aggregated approximately $11.0 million as of September 30, 2009. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with significant indebtedness, including: – we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs and, as a result, we have less funds available for operations and other purposes; – it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; – we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and – if we default under any of our outstanding notes and/or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. • As of November 30, 2009, Mark Libratore, our President and Chief Executive Officer, held approximately 47.5% of our outstanding common stock, excluding options to purchase up to 4,111,009 shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Libratore has the ability to exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the following actions: – the election of directors; – the adoption of stock option plans; – the amendment of charter documents; or – the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock • Even though we expect our common stock to continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, we cannot predict the changes in the trading market for our common stock, including changes in liquidity. Because only a small percentage of our outstanding shares are freely traded in the public market, the price of our shares could be volatile and liquidation of an investor’s holdings may be difficult. Thus, holders of our common stock may be required to retain their shares for a long period of time. • We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings and other cash resources for future operation and development of our business and do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition and capital requirements. Corporations that pay dividends may be viewed as a better investment than corporations that do not. • Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause our market value to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 7 Table of Contents • Our bylaws contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our bylaws impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. Furthermore, the Nevada Revised Statutes contain an affiliated transaction provision that prohibits a publicly-held Nevada corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations or other extraordinary corporate transactions with an “interested stockholder” unless, among others, (i) the transaction is approved by a majority of disinterested directors before the person becomes an interested shareholder or (ii) the transaction is approved by the holders of a majority of the corporation’s voting shares other than those owned by the interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined as a person who together with affiliates and associates beneficially owns more than 10% of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares. This provision may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company even if this change of control would benefit our shareholders. • Public trading of our common stock on the OTCBB is subject to certain provisions, commonly referred to as the penny stock rules, promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These require a broker dealer to: – make a special suitability determination for purchasers of penny stocks; – receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and – deliver to a prospective purchaser of a penny stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. Consequently, penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, many prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 