Item 1A. Risk Factors Current and potential shareholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, could negatively affect the Company’s revenues, profitability or cash flows in the future. These factors include: 6 Risks Relating to Our Business • Sales of a significant portion of our products depend on the continued availability of reimbursement of our customers by government and private insurance plans. See “Business—Government Regulation." Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. Without a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products, the result would be a reduction in our overall gross profit. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our overall gross profit unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our profits could also be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement. The regulations that govern Medicare reimbursement are complex and our compliance with these regulations may be reviewed by federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, and the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). These agencies conduct audits of most companies and periodic investigations of some companies billing Medicare. Negative findings or results of audits are subject to appeals and judicial review and are often overturned at various levels. The Company is routinely audited by Medicare and other insurance companies. There is always the possibility that the Company could be the subject of an accelerated audit or investigation as it performs a substantial amount of Medicare billing each year. Medicare audits or investigations could possibly lead to recoupment of monies paid to the Company, fines, off-sets on future payments and even loss of Medicare billing privileges. Since its inception, the Company has had no fines or penalties but the Company has been audited by all four regional Medicare carriers and from time-to-time been asked to repay amounts on claims previously paid for various reasons such as billing errors, lack of medical records in physician offices, insufficient patient diagnoses, patients receiving home health care, patients having similar equipment, patients not seen by physician recently enough, and lack of adequate medical necessity, which is common to all Medicare providers. Although the Company has set aside reserves for contractual adjustments, demands for repayment could exceed Company reserves and the Company could be unable to pay them, which would adversely affect the Company. We are also subject to other statutes and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act with respect to the use and disclosure of potential health information. Violations of these statutes or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil penalties and adversely affect our business. See “Business-Government Regulation.” • A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is generated from the sale of urological supplies. As a result, changes in the external environment, including regulatory changes, could be detrimental, depending on market conditions. • While we are able to control our level of expansion as well as the costs associated with our growth plans, (i) some expansions may create significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources, (ii) expansion into existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, and (iii) our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may have to be adjusted to support substantial expansion. • We generally incur negative cash flow with respect to the first order from a new customer for chronic care products, due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with initial customer qualification. Accordingly, the profitability of these product lines depends, in large part, on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, customer transition to extended care facilities, customer mortality and general economic conditions. • We could be liable for harm caused by products that we sell. The sale of medical products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims. A product liability claim could be expensive. While management believes that our insurance provides adequate coverage, no assurance can be made that adequate coverage will exist for these claims. • Our growth is dependent upon a robust marketplace with affordable television and Internet advertising opportunities. The effects of competitors entering the marketplace may increase the costs of our advertising efforts and have a negative impact on our growth. We could lose customers as a result of more effective and higher volumes of advertising by competitors. • Many of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of production or sales of our products or mandate a recall, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. 7 • Our future results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: — changes in reimbursement guidelines and amounts; — changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry; — changes in the mix or cost of our products; — the timing of customer orders; — the timing, cost, and levels of our advertising spend; and — the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products and services offered by us or our competitors. • We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses and products. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that might adversely affect our financial and operational resources, including: — diversion of the attention of senior management from important business matters; — difficulty in retaining key personnel of an acquired business; — failure to assimilate operations of an acquired business; — failure to retain the customers of an acquired business; — possible operating losses and expenses of an acquired business; — exposure to legal claims for activities of an acquired business prior to acquisition; and — incurrence of debt and related interest expense. • The success of the Company will largely be dependent on Mark Libratore, the Company’s founder and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business. Loss of Mr. Libratore’s services, either through retirement, incapacity or death, may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has $4,000,000 of key man insurance on Mr. Libratore’s life, with the Company as the beneficiary of $3,000,000 and his wife the beneficiary of $1,000,000. • As of November 30, 2013, Mark Libratore, our President and Chief Executive Officer, held 19,620,867 shares of common stock, or 37.4% of our outstanding common stock, excluding his options to purchase up to 165,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Libratore has the ability to exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the following actions: — the election of directors; — the adoption of stock option plans; — the amendment of charter documents; and — the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including the sale of the Company. 8 Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock • Our common stock has been listed on the NYSE MKT since November 20, 2013. Even though we expect our common stock to continue to be quoted on the NYSE MKT, we cannot predict changes in the trading market for our common stock, including changes in liquidity. A large percentage of our outstanding shares are held by a relatively small number of investors, including our President and Chief Executive Officer. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could affect the market price of our common stock. • We will continue to retain future earnings to develop our business, as opportunities arise, and evaluate on a quarterly basis the amount and timing of future dividends based on the Company’s operating results, financial condition, capital requirements and general business conditions. The amount and timing of any future dividends may vary, and the payment of any dividend does not assure that the Company will be able to pay dividends in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 