ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a description of the principal risks inherent in our business. We are affected by factors that adversely impact the commercial aviation industry. As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected in the past by geopolitical events, high oil prices, lack of capital, and weak economic conditions. In addition, as a result of these and other events, from time-to-time certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operation. In calendar year 2008 and into 2009, demand for air transportation in the United States and abroad declined due to economic deterioration in the U.S. and other global economies. Although global economic conditions improved in the 2010 to 2013 period, the recovery has generally been sluggish in the U.S. and in many other developed nations. The impact of persistently high fuel costs and the continued sluggish or weak worldwide economic conditions may lead airlines to reduce domestic or international capacity. In addition, certain of our airline customers have in the past been impacted by tight credit markets, which limited their ability to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. A reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected. Further, tight credit conditions negatively impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. A deteriorating airline environment may also result in additional airline bankruptcies, and we may not be able to fully collect outstanding accounts receivable. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight credit conditions and customer bankruptcies, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the following: •deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; •reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support; •retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft; •reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; •increased in-house maintenance by airlines; •high oil prices; •lack of parts in the marketplace; •future terrorist attacks and the ongoing war on terrorism; •future outbreaks of infectious diseases; and •acts of God. Our U.S. government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales to branches, agencies and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $763.2 million (35.7% of consolidated sales) in fiscal year 2013 (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our U.S. government contracts is for products and services 6 Table of Contents supporting U.S. Department of Defense logistics and mobility strategy, as well as for supplemental airlift services and are, therefore, subject to changes in defense and other governmental agency funding and spending. Our contracts with the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense and its contractors, are typically agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the government customer. Sales to agencies of the U.S. government and their contractors are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding, requirements generated by world events, and budgetary constraints. Defense funding is currently facing pressure due to U.S. budget deficit challenges. Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 ("Budget Act"), which reduced defense spending by a minimum of $487 billion over a ten-year period that began in government fiscal year 2012. Considering the Budget Act and deficit reduction pressures, it is likely that discretionary spending by the federal government will remain constrained for several years. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 ("Taxpayer Relief Act") delayed the pending sequestration of appropriations imposed by the Budget Act by two months, from January 2, 2013 to March 1, 2013, and reduced the amount of the government fiscal year 2013 budget cuts. Sequestration went into effect March 1, 2013. On March 26, 2013, the President signed into law the Consolidated Further Continuing Appropriations Act, which includes specific appropriations for the U.S. Department of Defense. On April 10, 2013, the President delivered his proposed fiscal 2014 budget to Congress. The President's $527 billion fiscal 2014 defense budget is lower than the final defense appropriations for fiscal 2013. While the specific effects of sequestration still cannot be determined, the automatic across-the-board cuts would approximately double the amount of the ten-year $487 billion reduction in the U.S. government defense spending that began in government fiscal year 2012 already required by the Budget Act. At this time, we have no information from our defense customers or otherwise that would allow us to estimate the impact of sequestration on our defense sales; however, our government-related business could be adversely impacted if no legislative or other solution is reached in the near future and sequestration remains in effect for an extended period. Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses. We continue to grow through acquisitions. We explore and have discussions with third parties regarding additional acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. For our recent acquisitions, and for any businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial, or integration plans for the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. We sell certain of our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers under firm contracts providing for fixed unit prices, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead, and other unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Significant cost issues may develop in connection with the A400M cargo system. Our Cargo Systems unit was selected in June 2005 to provide cargo loading systems for the Airbus A400M Military Transport Aircraft ("A400M"). We have incurred significant engineering and development costs in connection with this program (see Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and we expect to incur additional costs until final design approval, which is currently scheduled for the first calendar quarter of 2014. In July 2013, we and Airbus amended the A400M contract to make changes to the Company's role and responsibilities under the program, establish a fixed price per shipset, set applicable weight parameters and make certain other changes. The Company believes that the revised fixed pricing schedule will enable the Company to recover its engineering and development costs, provided the Company achieves specified reductions in the production costs of those items over which it has continuing responsibility. We may not be able to recover our engineering and development costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, under certain circumstances, including the following: (i) the A400M program experiences significant additional delivery delays or order cancellations; (ii) we fail to achieve the expected production cost reductions; (iii) we fail to deliver the items that we are now responsible for in accordance with the terms of the amended contract; or (iv) the contract is further amended to change our role and responsibilities. Success at our airframe maintenance facilities is dependent upon continued outsourcing by the airlines. We currently perform airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at leased facilities in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Miami, Florida; Duluth, Minnesota; and Hot Springs, Arkansas. Revenues at these facilities fluctuate based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. If either the number of aircraft operating or the level of outsourcing of maintenance activities declines, we may not be able to execute our operational and financial plans at our maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us. The markets for our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers are highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft component and parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors, and other expeditionary airlift service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries. We operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries, and hold certificates to operate aircraft. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. 8 Table of Contents If any of our material licenses, certificates, authorizations, or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations include the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Truth in Negotiations Act, Cost Accounting Standards, and laws, regulations, and orders restricting the use and dissemination of classified information under the U.S. export control laws and the export of certain products and technical information. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or if a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil penalties, criminal penalties, or administrative sanctions, including debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our reputation could suffer harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. The majority of Airlift's revenue is derived from providing expeditionary airlift services in Afghanistan. Airlift derives most of its revenue from providing supplemental airlift services in Afghanistan for the U.S. Department of Defense. The U.S. has announced plans to reduce substantially military activities in Afghanistan in 2014 and withdraw the majority of its troops, although the timing and number of troops to be withdrawn is not precisely known. Airlift has contracts with option renewals in October 2013 and May 2014 with an aggregate annual sales value of approximately $220 million. In addition, Airlift has a contract expiring on November 30, 2013 with an annual sales value of $110 million. Although we expect significant ongoing demand for airlift services in Afghanistan from the U.S. Department of Defense and other governmental departments, we are exposed to the risk that our revenues at Airlift may decline if these contracts are not renewed, renewed only in part, or are terminated, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Airlift's inability to diversify its customer base beyond the U.S. Department of Defense in Afghanistan could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. U.S. government contractors that provide support services in theaters of conflict such as Afghanistan have come under increasing scrutiny by agency inspectors general government auditors and congressional committees. Investigations pursued by any or all of these groups may result in adverse publicity for us and reputational harm, regardless of the underlying merit of the allegations being investigated. We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. We conduct our business in certain foreign countries, some of which are politically unstable or subject to military or civil conflicts. Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: •military conflicts, civil strife, and political risks; •export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; •compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws; •the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations; 9 Table of Contents •contract award and funding delays; •potential restrictions on transfers of funds; •import and export duties and value added taxes; •foreign exchange risk; •transportation delays and interruptions; and •uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business internationally, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate or that the regions in which we operate will continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. Market values for our aviation products fluctuate, and we may be unable to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines when their current lease expires. We use a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of inventories, aircraft, and engines, which are on lease or available for lease. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Reductions in demand for our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our inventories, aircraft, and engines, could result in impairment charges in future periods. We lease aircraft and engines to our customers on an operating lease basis. Our ability to re-lease or sell these assets on acceptable terms when the lease expires is subject to a number of factors which drive industry capacity, including new aircraft deliveries, availability of used aircraft and engines in the marketplace, competition, financial condition of our customers, overall health of the airline industry, and general economic conditions. Our inability to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continued availability of debt and equity capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, state of the aviation industry, our financial performance, and credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants. Certain loan and debt agreements require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan and debt agreements and may result in a cross-default under other debt agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under our debt agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our industry is susceptible to product and other liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by insurance may adversely affect our financial condition. Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and bodily injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or component, airframe part or accessory, or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured, or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we operated, serviced, or in which our products are installed crashes and the cause cannot be determined. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. We face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. These threats arise in some cases as a result of our role as a defense contractor. Cyber security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information, including our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us. Federal, state, and local requirements relating to the discharge and emission of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, the remediation and abatement of contaminants, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Future environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning environmental issues, such as climate change, could adversely affect our operations and increase operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand for our products and services. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United States, foreign governments, the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. 11 Table of Contents We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The industries in which we participate are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment, and methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages. We are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce, because of the complex nature of many of our products and services. Furthermore, we have a collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 230 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage. These and similar events may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 