ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a description of some of the principal risks inherent in our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. We are impacted by factors that adversely affect the commercial aviation industry. As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected during the past decade by the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the subsequent decline in air travel, the war on terrorism, the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, and historically high oil prices. As a result of these and other events, certain customers filed for bankruptcy protection over the past several years, and others may be forced to do so in the future. More recently, over the past nine to twelve months, the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized nations have deteriorated. In the first quarter of calendar year 2009, U.S. gross domestic product declined 5.5%, and the U.S. unemployment rate reached approximately 9.5%, its highest level since 1983. As a result of weak economic conditions, both business and leisure travelers have reduced air travel, causing many carriers to announce further capacity reductions. Capacity in North America was down approximately 8% during the first calendar quarter of 2009 compared to last year, and passenger traffic declined approximately 10%. There has also been tightening in the credit markets over the last year. This has reduced the amount of liquidity available to our customers which has limited their ability to buy parts, services, engines and aircraft. A further reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected. Further, tight credit conditions may impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines and aircraft. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight credit conditions, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations and our growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the following: •deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; •reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support; •retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft; •reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; •high oil prices; •future terrorist attacks and the ongoing war on terrorism; and •future outbreaks of infectious diseases. 7 Table of Contents Our customers may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us or we may experience less business as a result of the current airline environment, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Mesa Airlines and subsidiaries ("Mesa") is a customer of the Company and in May 2008, warned it may have to file for bankruptcy protection if it could not resolve a contract dispute with one of its customers. In addition to the ongoing dispute with their customer, Mesa has reported substantial operating losses in the three- and six-month periods ended March 31, 2009. During fiscal 2009, our consolidated sales to Mesa were $70,700, of which $45,500 was in the Aviation Supply Chain segment and $25,200 was in the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul segment. At May 31, 2009, we have long-term assets recorded in equipment on long-term lease of $46,000 supporting the Mesa supply chain programs and also have trade receivables and other assets associated with Mesa of approximately $12,500. In addition to Mesa, a number of our existing and prospective worldwide airline customers continue to suffer from the problems affecting the aviation industry, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection. As a result, we may sell fewer parts and services to these customers and certain of these customers continue to pose credit risks to us. Our inability to collect receivables from one or more important customers, including Mesa, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The market value for our aviation products fluctuates. We have used a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of inventories and aircraft and engines which are on lease or available for lease. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed a comprehensive review of our aircraft portfolio. The primary objective of this review was to assess the impact of the economic slowdown and credit crisis on market conditions. Based upon that review, and taking into consideration the desire to improve liquidity and generate cash, we made the decision to sell one of the four aircraft acquired before September 11, 2001, and offer two of the remaining three for sale. As a result of this review and taking into consideration our assessment of current market conditions, the Company recorded a $21,033 pre-tax impairment charge in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 to reduce the carrying value of the three aircraft to their net realizable value. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded a $10,100 pre-tax impairment charge on inventory and engines which had been acquired prior to September 11, 2001. This inventory was also subject to impairment charges recorded in previous fiscal years. The fiscal 2009 inventory and engine impairment charge was triggered by declining conditions in the commercial aviation industry and a slowdown in the sales volume of these assets during the fiscal year. Further reductions in demand for our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our inventories, aircraft and engines, could result in additional impairment charges in future periods. We can give no assurance that future impairment charges for our inventories, aircraft and engines will not occur. Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we completed four acquisitions. Further, we explore and have discussions with third parties regarding additional acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. For the acquisitions we made during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, and for any additional businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial or integration plan of the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales to the U.S. Department of Defense and its contractors were approximately $533,050 (37.4% of consolidated sales) in fiscal year 2009. The majority of our U.S. government contracts are for products and services used for ongoing military logistics support activities and for products which support the U.S. military's deployment strategy. Our contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and its contractors are typically firm agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the U.S. Department of Defense. Sales to the U.S. Department of Defense are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding and requirements generated by world events, and therefore may not continue at levels previously experienced, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. We sell certain of our products and services under firm contracts providing for fixed prices for the products and services, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead and other unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines when their current leases expire. We purchase and lease aircraft and engines to our customers on an operating lease basis. Our ability to re-lease or sell these assets on acceptable terms is subject to a number of factors which drive industry capacity, including new aircraft deliveries, availability of used aircraft and engines in the marketplace, competition, financial condition of our customers, overall health of the airline industry and general economic conditions. During fiscal 2010, six 737-400's in the joint venture portfolio will be up for lease renewal and one MD80 in the wholly-owned portfolio will be up for lease renewal. Our inability to re-lease these aircraft, or other aircraft and engines that are currently on lease, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Significant cost issues may develop associated with the A400M Cargo system. In June 2005, we announced that our Cargo Systems business in our Structures and Systems segment was selected to provide cargo handling systems for the new A400M Military Transport Aircraft ("A400M"). We are a subcontractor to Pfalz Flugzeugwerke GmbH ("PFW") of Speyer, Germany on this Airbus program. We have incurred, and are expected to continue to incur, significant development costs in connection with this program (see Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our portion of revenue to be generated from this program is expected to exceed $300,000 through fiscal 2020, based on current sales projections for the A400M as provided to us by Airbus. Based on program delays and information provided by Airbus, planned first shipments under this program have slipped to fiscal 2013. If the A400M experiences significant additional delivery delays or order cancellations, or if we fail to develop the system according to contract specifications, then we may not be able to recover our development costs, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Success within our Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul segment is dependent upon fleet utilization and continued outsourcing by the airlines. We currently conduct airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at leased facilities in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Miami, Florida; and Hot Springs, Arkansas. Revenues 9 Table of Contents at these facilities fluctuate based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. If the number of aircraft operating decline or outsourcing of maintenance activities decline, we may not be able to execute our operational and financial plan at our MRO facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us. The aviation industry and the markets for our products and services are highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, and other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continuing availability of debt and equity capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, the state of the aviation industry, our financial performance and current credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants. Certain of our loan agreements require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan agreements and would result in a cross-default under other loan agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under loan agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. We also operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. If any of the Company's material licenses, authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA and in some cases the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our industry is susceptible to product liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by insurance may adversely affect our financial condition. Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and personal injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or component, airframe part or accessory or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we serviced or in which our products are installed crashes and the cause cannot be determined. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we can give no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any product liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us. Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Information on a legal proceeding involving the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality is contained under Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The aviation industry is constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment and methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages. Because of the complex nature of many of our products and services, we are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce. Furthermore, we have a collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 630 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage, and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 