ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a description of some of the principal risks inherent in our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. 5 We may be affected by factors that adversely affect the aviation industry. As a provider of products and services to the aviation industry, we are greatly affected by the overall economic condition of that industry. The aviation industry is historically cyclical. Early in calendar year 2001, the commercial aviation industry began to experience the negative effects of a worldwide economic downturn. The events of September 11, 2001 exacerbated that condition, resulting in a significant decline in air travel and reduced capacity by most of the major U.S.-based airlines. Since September 11, 2001, the aviation industry has also been negatively affected by historically high fuel prices, the war on terrorism and the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. As a result of these and other events, certain customers filed for bankruptcy protection, including Air Canada, Aloha Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Mesaba Airlines, Northwest Airlines, U.S. Airways, United Airlines and Varig. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by the following: · continued historically high fuel costs; · future terrorist attacks and the ongoing war on terrorism; · deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; · reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support; · retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft; · reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; and · future outbreaks of infectious diseases. The economic and other factors affecting the aviation industry may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our customers may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of our existing and prospective worldwide airline customers continue to suffer from the problems affecting the aviation industry, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection or are only recently emerging from bankruptcy. As a result, certain of these customers continue to pose credit risks to us. Our inability to collect receivables from one or more important customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The market value for our aviation products fluctuates. We have used a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of inventories and aircraft and engines which are on lease or available for lease. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Principally as a result of the events of September 11, 2001 and its impact on the global airline industry’s financial condition, fleet size and aircraft utilization, we recorded a significant charge for impaired inventories and engines during the second quarter of fiscal 2002 utilizing those assumptions. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we recorded additional charges as a result of a further decline in market value for certain of these inventories, aircraft and engines. Further reductions in demand for our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our inventories, aircraft and engines, could result in additional impairment charges in 6 future periods. We can give no assurance that future impairment charges for our inventories, aircraft and engines will not occur. Our government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales to the U.S. Department of Defense and its contractors were approximately $325,280 (30.7% of consolidated sales) in fiscal year 2007. The majority of our government contracts are for aviation products and services used for ongoing military logistic support activities and for products which support the U.S. military’s deployment strategy. Our contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and its contractors are typically firm agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the U.S. Department of Defense. Sales to the U.S. Department of Defense are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, government funding and requirements generated by world events, and therefore may not continue at levels previously experienced, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. We sell certain of our products and services under firm, fixed-price contracts providing for fixed prices for the products and services, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead and other unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to re-lease or sell currently leased aircraft and engines. We purchase and lease aircraft and engines to our customers on an operating lease basis. Our ability to re-lease or sell these assets on acceptable terms is subject to a number of factors which drive industry capacity, including new aircraft deliveries, availability of used aircraft and engines in the marketplace, competition, financial condition of our customers, overall health of the airline industry and general economic conditions. Our inability to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines that are currently on lease could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Significant issues may develop associated with the A400M Cargo system. In June 2005, we announced that our Cargo Systems business was selected to provide cargo handling systems for the new A400M Military Transport Aircraft (A400M). We are teaming with Pfalz Flugzeugwerke GmbH (PFW) of Speyer, Germany on the program. We have incurred, and are expected to continue to incur, significant development costs in connection with this program. Our portion of revenue to be generated from this program is expected to exceed $300,000 through fiscal 2015, based on sales projections of the A400M. We expect to begin shipments under this program during the second half of fiscal 2008. If the A400M experiences significant delivery delays or order cancellations, or if we fail to develop the system according to contract specifications, then our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Indianapolis Maintenance Center success is dependent upon the hiring and retention of a large pool of skilled aircraft mechanics. The Indianapolis Maintenance Center is comprised of 12 airframe maintenance bays (10 of which are available to us), as well as backshop, warehouse and office space. Revenues at the IMC fluctuate based on the demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and potential outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. Furthermore, we may not be able to hire and retain the 7 required amount of qualified licensed aircraft mechanics. As a result, we may not be able to execute our operational and financial plan at the IMC, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us. The aviation industry and the markets for our products and services are highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, and other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. We can give no assurance that competitive pressures will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continuing availability of debt and equity capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including general economic conditions, the state of the aviation industry, our financial performance and current credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants. Certain of our loan agreements require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan agreements and would result in a cross-default under other loan agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under loan agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. We also operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and in some cases the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. Although we believe we comply with all applicable regulatory standards, these standards may change in the future, requiring our inventory to be modified or scrapped. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. If material licenses, authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA and in some cases the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses. During fiscal 2007, we completed two acquisitions. Further, we explore and have discussions with third parties regarding additional acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks including 8 difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill on our financial results, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. For the two acquisitions we made in fiscal 2007, and for any additional businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial or integration plan of the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is susceptible to product liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by insurance may adversely affect our financial condition. Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and personal injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or component, airframe part or accessory or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured or repaired fails or if an aircraft in which our products are installed crashes and the cause cannot be determined. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we can give no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any product liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us. Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Compliance with environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims have, in the past, been accomplished without material effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additional information on environmental matters, including an administrative proceeding by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, is contained under Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The aviation industry is constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment and methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These capital expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages. Because of the complex nature of many of our products and services, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce. Furthermore, we have collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 600 employees at three of our facilities. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers’ demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage, and may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 