ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a description of the principal risks inherent in our business. We are affected by factors that adversely impact the commercial aviation industry. As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected in the past by geopolitical events, high oil prices, lack of capital and weak economic conditions. In addition, as a result of these and other events, from time-to-time certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operation. In calendar year 2008 and into 2009, demand for air transportation in the United States and abroad declined due to economic deterioration in the U.S. and other global economies. Although global economic conditions improved in 2010 and 2011, the recovery has generally been sluggish in the U.S., and in many other developed nations. The impact of high fuel costs and the continued sluggish or weak world-wide economic conditions, may lead airlines to reduce domestic or international capacity. In addition, certain of our airline customers have in the past been impacted by tight credit markets, which has limited their ability to buy parts, services, engines and aircraft. A further reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected. Further, tight credit conditions may impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines and aircraft. A deteriorating airline environment may also result in airline bankruptcies, and we may not be able to fully collect outstanding accounts receivable. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight credit conditions and customer bankruptcies, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the following: •deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; •reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support; •retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft; •reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; •increased in-house maintenance by airlines; •high oil prices; •future terrorist attacks and the ongoing war on terrorism; •future outbreaks of infectious diseases; and •acts of God. Our government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales to branches, agencies and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $893,017 (50.3% of consolidated sales) in fiscal year 2011 (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our U.S. government contracts are for products and services used for ongoing military performance-based logistics support activities, products which support the U.S. military's 7 Table of Contents deployment strategy, and expeditionary airlift services in support of military deployments. Our contracts with the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense and its contractors, are typically firm agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the government customer. Sales to agencies of the U.S. government and their contractors are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding requirements generated by world events, and budgetary constraints. Therefore, such sales may not continue at levels previously experienced. While spending authorizations for intelligence and defense-related programs by the U.S. government have increased in recent years, in particular after the 2001 terrorist attacks and as a result of action in support of military and civil activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, future levels of expenditure, mission priorities and authorizations for these programs may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Market values for our aviation products fluctuate and we may be unable to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines when their current lease expires. We use a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of inventories and aircraft and engines which are on lease or available for lease. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we decided to offer one narrow body aircraft for sale from our wholly-owned aircraft portfolio and as a result, we recorded a $5,355 pre-tax impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the aircraft to it is net realizable value. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed a comprehensive review of our aircraft portfolio. The primary objective of this review was to assess the impact of the economic slowdown and credit crisis on market conditions. Based upon that review, we recorded a $21,033 pre-tax impairment charge in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 to reduce the carrying value of three aircraft to their net realizable value. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded a $10,100 pre-tax impairment charge on inventory and engines which had been acquired prior to September 11, 2001. This inventory was also subject to impairment charges recorded in previous fiscal years. The fiscal 2009 inventory and engine impairment charges were triggered by declining conditions in the commercial aviation industry and a slowdown in the sales volume of these assets during the fiscal year. Further reductions in demand for our inventories or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our inventories, aircraft and engines, could result in additional impairment charges in future periods. We can give no assurance that future impairment charges for our inventories, aircraft and engines will not occur. We lease aircraft and engines to our customers on an operating lease basis. Our ability to re-lease or sell these assets on acceptable terms when the lease expires is subject to a number of factors which drive industry capacity, including new aircraft deliveries, availability of used aircraft and engines in the marketplace, competition, financial condition of our customers, overall health of the airline industry and general economic conditions. During fiscal 2012, ten 737-400's and one 737-300 in the joint venture portfolio and one MD80 in the wholly owned portfolio will be up for lease renewal. Our inability to re-lease these aircraft, or other aircraft and engines that are currently on lease, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses. We continue to grow through acquisitions, including most recently with the acquisition of Airlift in April 2010, the largest acquisition in the Company's history. Further, we explore and have discussions with third parties regarding additional acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the 8 Table of Contents acquired business. For our recent acquisitions, and for any businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial or integration plans for the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. We sell certain of our products and services to our commercial, government and defense customers under firm contracts providing for fixed prices, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead and other unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Significant cost issues may develop in connection with the A400M Cargo system. In June 2005, we announced that our Cargo Systems business in our Structures and Systems segment was selected to provide cargo handling systems for the new Airbus A400M Military Transport Aircraft ("A400M"). We have incurred, and are expected to continue to incur, significant development costs in connection with this program (see Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our portion of revenue to be generated from this program is expected to exceed $300 million through fiscal 2020, based on current sales projections for the A400M as provided to us by Airbus. Based on program delays and information provided by Airbus, planned first shipments under this program have slipped to fiscal 2013. If the A400M experiences significant additional delivery delays or order cancellations, or if we fail to develop the system according to contract specifications, then we may not be able to recover our development costs, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Success within our Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul segment is dependent upon continued outsourcing by the airlines. We currently perform airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at leased facilities in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Miami, Florida; and Hot Springs, Arkansas. Revenues at these facilities fluctuate based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. If either the number of aircraft operating or the level of outsourcing of maintenance activities declines, we may not be able to execute our operational and financial plans at our MRO facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us. The markets for our products and services to our commercial, government and defense customers are highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft and aircraft component and parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors, and other expeditionary airlift service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries. We operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries, and hold certificates to operate aircraft. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. If any of the Company's material licenses, certificates, authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations include the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, Cost Accounting Standards, and laws, regulations and orders restricting the use and dissemination of classified information under U.S. export control laws, and the export of certain products and technical information. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or if a government audit, review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions. Our reputation could suffer harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. The majority of Airlift's revenue is derived from providing expeditionary airlift services in Afghanistan. Airlift derives most of its revenue from providing supplemental airlift in Afghanistan for the U.S. Department of Defense. The President of the United States recently affirmed plans for troop withdrawals in Afghanistan beginning in calendar year 2011, and then accelerating in mid-to-late calendar year 2012. Although we expect significant on-going demand for airlift services in Afghanistan from the Department of Defense and other governmental departments, we are exposed to the risk that our revenues at Airlift may decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. U.S. government contractors that provide support services in theaters of conflict such as Afghanistan have come under increasing scrutiny by agency inspector generals, government auditors and congressional committees. Investigations pursued by any or all of these groups may result in adverse publicity for us and reputational harm, regardless of the underlying merit of the allegations being investigated. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Airlift, we entered into a consent agreement with the U.S. Department of State, Office of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, to resolve certain violations of export control laws that occurred prior to our acquisition. Under the consent agreement, we agreed to take certain measures to enhance Airlift's export compliance program and appointed an internal special compliance official to oversee Airlift's continuing assessment, improvement and adoption of enhancements to its compliance program. If during the eighteen-month term of the consent agreement, the government determines we have failed to comply with the terms of the consent agreement ending in 10 Table of Contents January 2012, we or one of our subsidiaries may face sanctions, which could include debarment from participating in contracts with the U.S. government. We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. We conduct our business in certain foreign countries, some of which are politically unstable or subject to military or civil conflicts. Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: •military conflicts, civil strife and political risks; •export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; •compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; •contract award and funding delays; •potential restrictions on transfers of funds; •import and export duties and value added taxes; •transportation delays and interruptions; •uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business internationally, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate. There can be no assurances that the regions in which we operate will continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. We are dependent upon the continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continued availability of debt and equity capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, the state of the aviation industry, our financial performance and credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants. Certain of our loan agreements require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan agreements and would result in a cross-default under other loan agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under loan agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is susceptible to product and other liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by insurance may adversely affect our financial condition. Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and personal injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or component, airframe part or accessory or any other aviation product 11 Table of Contents which we have sold, manufactured or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we operated, serviced or in which our products are installed crashes and the cause cannot be determined. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us. Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge and emission of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, the remediation and abatement of contaminants, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Future environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning issues such as climate change, could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United States, foreign governments, the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The industries in which we participate in are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment and methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages. Because of the complex nature of many of our products and services, we are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce. Furthermore, we have a collective bargaining agreement covering 487 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage, and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 