Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following are certain risks that we believe should be considered carefully in evaluating Cascade’s business. Our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks summarized below do not represent an exclusive list, and additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. Economic or industry downturns Our business has historically experienced periodic cyclical downturns generally consistent with economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. The level of sales of our products reflects to a significant extent the capital investment decisions of the customers who buy our products and the lift trucks and other vehicles, on which our products are used. These customers have had a tendency to delay capital projects, including the purchase of new equipment or expensive upgrades, during industry or general economic downturns. Past downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and erosion of gross profit. Therefore, a significant downturn in the markets of our customers, including lift truck manufacturers and to a lesser extent construction equipment manufacturers, or in general economic conditions is likely to result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. Competition Our products do not depend upon proprietary technology to any significant degree, and therefore can be subject to intense competition. The principal methods of competition in our markets are product performance and ease of use, product quality, safety, customer service and support, product lead times, global reach, brand reputation, breadth of product line and price. Our customers increasingly demand more technologically advanced and integrated products in certain cases and we must continue to develop our expertise and technical capabilities in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To retain our competitive position, we will need to invest continuously in research and development, manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. 4 Impact of acquisitions We have at times expanded our business through acquisitions and expect that we will do so in the future if appropriate opportunities arise. If we are not successful in integrating acquisitions, we may not realize the operating results that we anticipate at the time of acquisition. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks, including: · Difficulties in matching the business culture of the acquired business with our culture; · Assumption of unexpected liabilities; · Demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; · Diversion of management’s attention from existing operations due to the integration of acquired businesses; · Difficulties in integrating operations and systems; · Difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; and · Difficulties in retaining customers and integrating customer bases. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations Foreign operations represent a significant portion of our business. We expect revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. As noted in “Properties” (Item 2), we own or lease facilities in many foreign countries throughout the world. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · Imposition of foreign exchange controls; · Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets such as China; · Foreign currency exchange risks; · Seizure of our property or assets by a foreign government without our consent; · Civil unrest or war in any of the countries in which we operate; · Tariffs, quotas, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · Difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · Differing labor regulations; · Requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · Restrictions on our ability to own or operate or repatriate profits from our subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions; · Difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law; · Unexpected transportation delays or interruptions; · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and · The burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws. 5 Foreign currency fluctuations Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our combined financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars, even though a portion of our cash flow is generated in foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues, expenses and cash flows of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency hedging instruments protecting or offsetting positions in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse currency fluctuations. We have in the past experienced and expect to experience at times in the future a negative impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Loss of senior management The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior managers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. Seven members of our senior management team have been with us for over 20 years, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who have each been with us for over 34 years. Our current Chief Operating Officer, Terry Cathey, will be retiring in June 2007. The loss of the services of key management personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities Our operations and properties are subject to stringent U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the investigation and clean up of contaminated properties as well as air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace health and safety. We can be held responsible under these laws and regulations no matter if the original actions were legal or illegal and no matter if we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We could be responsible for payment of the full amount of any liability, whether or not any other responsible party also is liable. These laws and regulations affect a significant percentage of our operations, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. Further, they may require substantial clean-up costs for our properties, many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing 6 operations, and the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions as these requirements change. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash-down wastes and sandblast material. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on, under or from other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, clean-up and monitoring requirements under U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Fluctuations in raw material costs and availability Significant cost increases in raw materials and components or shortages in these items could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. To manufacture our products we purchase raw materials and components, principally rolled bar, plate and extruded steel products, unfinished castings and forgings, hydraulic cylinders and motors and hardware items such as fasteners, rollers, hydraulic seals and hose assemblies. The price of steel is particularly significant to our manufacturing costs since most of our products are manufactured using specialty steel as a primary raw material and specialty steel based components as purchased parts. As a result, we are exposed to increases in the market prices of raw materials and components that we may not be able to mitigate by changing the selling prices of our products or other means. We may also experience shortages of raw materials and purchased parts, which in certain cases are provided by a limited number of suppliers. Shortages may require us to curtail production or to devote additional financial resources to maintaining inventories of raw materials and purchased parts in excess of our normal requirements. Underfunded benefit plans Our obligations under our postretirement benefit plan and certain foreign subsidiaries’ defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded. At some time in the future we may have to make significant cash payments to fund these plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of January 31, 2007, our projected benefit obligations under our defined benefit pension plans exceed the fair value of assets by $2.2 million. As of January 31, 2007 our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement benefit plan, which is not funded, was $7.5 million. The underfunding in our defined benefit pension plans is due in part to fluctuations in the financial markets that have caused the valuation of the assets to decrease. We expect that any required cash payments to our plans that are not fully funded will be made from future cash flows from operations. If our cash contributions are insufficient to adequately fund the plans to cover our future obligations, the performance of the assets in our plans does not meet our expectations or assumptions are modified, our contributions could be materially higher than we expect. This would reduce the cash available for our business. Changes in U.S. or foreign laws governing these plans could require us to make additional contributions. During the year ended January 31, 2007, a change to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States required the recording of the full postretirement benefit plan liability on our consolidated balance sheet. In the future, additional changes could require the recording of additional costs related to these plans. 7 Reliance on lift truck dealers Approximately 55-60% of our products are sold to the end-user customer through retail dealers. Therefore, a significant portion of our sales is dependent on the quality and effectiveness of these dealers, who are not subject to our control. As a result, poor performance by retail lift truck dealers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Original equipment manufacturers sourcing practices We sell 40-45% of our products directly to OEMs, who carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can have an impact on our quarterly results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 