Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following are certain risks that we believe should be considered carefully in evaluating Cascade’s business. Our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks summarized below do not represent an exhaustive list, and additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Economic or industry downturns Our business has historically experienced periodic cyclical downturns generally consistent with economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. The level of sales of our products reflects to a significant extent the capital investment decisions of the customers who buy our products and the lift trucks and other vehicles on which our products are used. These customers have had a tendency to delay capital projects, including the purchase of new equipment or upgrades, during industry or general economic downturns. Past downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and erosion of gross profit and net income. Therefore, a significant downturn in the markets of our customers, including lift truck manufacturers and to a lesser extent construction equipment manufacturers, or in general economic conditions, such as the recent global economic recession, will result in a reduction in demand for our products and negatively affect our business. Fluctuations in raw material costs and availability To manufacture our products we purchase a variety of raw materials and components. These consist principally of rolled bar, plate and extruded specialty steel products, unfinished castings and forgings, hydraulic cylinders and motors and various hardware items. The price of steel is particularly significant to our manufacturing costs since most of our products are manufactured using specialty steel as a primary raw material and specialty steel based components as purchased parts. As a result, we are exposed to increases in the market prices of raw materials and components. We may not be able to mitigate these increases by changing the selling prices of our products or through other means. Significant cost decreases in raw materials and components could result in pressure from customers to lower our sales prices. Due to large quantities of raw material on hand at the end of the year, these lower sales prices could result in a write down of inventory costs to market value. We may also experience shortages of raw materials and purchased parts, which in certain cases are provided by a limited number of suppliers. Shortages may require us to curtail production or to devote additional financial resources to maintaining inventories of raw materials and purchased parts in excess of our normal requirements. Credit and Equity Markets Our results of operations are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy. The recent global financial crisis has caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, principally in the U.S. and Europe. These conditions have decreased availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers and customers. Although we generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, pay dividends and fund our employee retirement benefit programs, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements over the long-term will require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in many of the markets that we serve, and our success in managing cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. Continuing market volatility, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. 8 Table of Contents Our line of credit agreement requires us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios as outlined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity.” During fiscal 2010, we renegotiated the terms of our line of credit due to significant restructuring charges incurred in Europe that would have put us in violation of debt covenant ratios. Failure to comply with the updated terms of our line of credit agreement could result in a default allowing our lenders to declare all borrowings under the line of credit to be immediately due and payable. This would require us to obtain additional financing or renegotiate the terms of our line of credit agreement again. The terms under which we could obtain new or revised financing would likely be less favorable and require higher interest rates, significant fees and tighter restrictions and covenants. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations Foreign operations represent a significant portion of our business. We expect revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. As noted in “Properties” (Item 2), we own or lease facilities in several foreign countries throughout the world. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • Foreign currency exchange risks; • Difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • Imposition of foreign exchange controls; • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets such as China; • Seizure of our property or assets by a foreign government; • Tariffs, quotas, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Restrictions on our ability to own or operate or repatriate profits from our subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions; • Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Differing labor regulations; • Requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • Civil unrest or war in any of the countries in which we operate; • Unexpected transportation delays or interruptions; • Difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law and complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; and • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Foreign currency fluctuations Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Because our combined financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars, even though a portion of our cash flow is generated in foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues, expenses and cash flows of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency hedging instruments protecting or offsetting positions in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse currency fluctuations. We only purchase these instruments to cover actual currency exposures. We have in the past experienced and expect to experience at times in the future an impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Original equipment manufacturers sourcing practices We sell approximately 42% of our products directly to OEMs, several of which are global manufacturers. The following actions taken by these OEMs could significantly affect our business: • Adjusting their inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations. • Shifting from local or regional sourcing of products to lower cost global sourcing. • Altering the distribution channels of certain products by acquiring all or part of their dealer network or by exerting influence over their sale of replacement parts and attachments through their distribution channels. • Manufacturing their own attachments. Competition Our products do not depend upon proprietary technology to any significant degree, and therefore can be subject to intense competition. Competitive characteristics of our products include overall performance, ease of use, quality, safety, customer service and support, manufacturing lead times, global reach, brand reputation, breadth of product line and price. Our customers increasingly demand more technologically advanced and integrated products in certain cases and we must continue to develop our expertise and technical capabilities in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To retain our competitive position, we will need to invest continuously in research and development and improve our manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities Our operations and properties are subject to stringent U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties as well as air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace health and safety. We can be held responsible under these laws and regulations whether or not the original actions were legal and whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We could be responsible for payment of the full amount of any liability, whether or not any other responsible party also is liable. These laws and regulations affect a significant percentage of our operations, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. Further, they may require substantial clean-up costs for our properties, many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing operations, and the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or 10 Table of Contents decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions as these requirements change. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash-down wastes and sandblast material. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on, under or from other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, clean-up and monitoring requirements under U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. In prior years, we entered into settlement agreements with various environmental insurance providers with respect to litigation of claims under insurance policies issued by the providers to recover expenses incurred in connection with environmental and related proceedings. As a part of these settlement agreements, we released all of our rights to any future recovery under these policies. Loss of senior management The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Several members of our senior management team have been with us for over 20 years, including our President and Chief Operating Officer, who have each been with us for over 35 years. We may lose the services of key management personnel or fail to attract and develop additional personnel. Reliance on customers Approximately 58% of our products are sold to the end-user customer through OEDs. Therefore, a significant portion of our sales is dependent on the quality and effectiveness of these dealers, who are not subject to our control. In addition, under current economic conditions customers may experience difficulty in obtaining credit to fund purchases of our products. Underfunded benefit plans Our obligations under our postretirement benefit plan and certain foreign subsidiaries’ defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded. At some time in the future we may have to make significant cash payments to fund these plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of January 31, 2010 our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement benefit plan, which is not funded, was $7.9 million. As of January 31, 2010, our projected benefit obligations under our defined benefit pension plans exceed the fair value of assets by $2 million. The underfunding in our defined benefit pension plans are impacted by fluctuations in the discount rate and financial markets that cause the valuation of assets to change. Also, the trustees of the UK defined benefit plan could decide to wind up the plan, which would cause us to be required to immediately fund the plan through a buyout of the obligation in full. We expect any required cash payments to our plans that are not fully funded will be made from future cash flows from operations. If our cash contributions are insufficient to adequately fund the plans to cover our future obligations, the performance of the pension plan assets do not meet our expectations or assumptions are modified, our contributions could be materially higher than we expect. This would reduce the cash available for our business. Changes in U.S. or foreign laws governing these plans could require us to make additional contributions and changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could require the recording of additional costs related to these plans. Impact of acquisitions We have historically expanded our business through acquisitions and expect we will do so in the future if appropriate opportunities arise. If we are not successful in integrating acquisitions, we may not realize the 11 Table of Contents operating results we anticipated at the time of acquisition. In addition, industry downturns in the markets the acquired companies serve and general economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks, including: • Doing business in industries outside the lift truck material handling business; • Difficulties in matching the business culture of the acquired business with our culture; • Difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • Difficulties in retaining customers and integrating customer bases; • Diversion of management’s attention from existing operations due to the integration of acquired businesses; • Difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • Assumption of unexpected liabilities. Due to the decreased availability of, and the related high cost in accessing, liquidity and credit in this current volatile credit and capital market, we may, in a bid to conserve cash for operations, undertake acquisitions that would be financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot guarantee any such acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 