Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following are certain risks that we believe should be considered carefully in evaluating Cascade’s business. Our business, financial condition, cash (1)—These individuals are considered executive officers of Cascade Corporation. 7 Table of Contents flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks summarized below do not represent an exhaustive list, and additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Economic or industry downturns Our business has historically experienced periodic cyclical downturns generally consistent with economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. The level of sales of our products reflects to a significant extent the capital investment decisions of the customers who buy our products and the lift trucks and other vehicles on which our products are used. These customers tend to delay capital projects, including the purchase of new equipment or upgrades, during industry or general economic downturns. Past downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and erosion of gross profit and net income. Therefore, a significant downturn in the markets of our customers, including lift truck manufacturers and to a lesser extent construction equipment manufacturers, or in general economic conditions will result in a reduction in demand for our products and negatively affect our business. Effectiveness of cost reduction activities/reorganization plans We are continually implementing ways to reduce costs and make our company more efficient, while achieving our objectives of customer satisfaction and the production of quality products. These cost reductions are achieved through “lean” principles that are applied throughout our organization. While evaluating and implementing these cost reduction initiatives, we may incur unexpected expenses and we may not achieve the anticipated savings once the plan is implemented. Fluctuations in raw material costs and availability To manufacture our products we purchase a variety of raw materials and components. These consist principally of rolled bar, plate and extruded specialty steel products, unfinished castings and forgings, hydraulic cylinders and motors and various hardware items. The price of steel is particularly significant to our manufacturing costs since most of our products are manufactured using specialty steel as a primary raw material and specialty steel based components as purchased parts. As a result, we are exposed to increases in the market prices of raw materials and components. We may not be able to mitigate these increases by changing the selling prices of our products or through other means. We may also experience shortages of raw materials and purchased parts, which in certain cases are provided by a limited number of suppliers. Shortages may require us to curtail production, spend additional money to expedite product to our manufacturing locations, or to devote additional financial resources to maintaining inventories of raw materials and purchased parts in excess of our normal requirements. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations Foreign operations represent over 55% of our sales. In the future, we expect revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. As noted in “Properties” (Item 2), we own or lease facilities in several foreign countries throughout the world. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, our future results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including: • Foreign currency exchange risks; • Difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • Imposition of foreign exchange controls; • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets such as China; • Seizure of our property or assets by a foreign government; 8 Table of Contents • Tariffs, quotas, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Restrictions on our ability to own or operate or repatriate profits from our subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions; • Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Differing labor regulations; • Requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • Civil unrest or war in any of the countries in which we operate; • Unexpected transportation delays or interruptions; • Difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law and complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; and • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Foreign currency fluctuations Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Because our combined financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars, even though a portion of our cash flow is generated in foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Fluctuations in currencies make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues, expenses and cash flows of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency hedging instruments protecting or offsetting positions in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse currency fluctuations. We only purchase these instruments to cover currency exposures. We have in the past experienced and expect to experience at times in the future an impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Reliance on customers Approximately 60% of our products are sold to the end-user customer through OEDs. Therefore, a significant portion of our sales is dependent on the quality and effectiveness of these dealers, who are not subject to our control. We sell approximately 40% of our products directly to OEMs, several of which are global manufacturers. The following actions taken by these OEMs could significantly affect our business: • Adjusting their inventories of our finished products as part of ongoing operations; • Shifting from local or regional sourcing of products to lower cost global sourcing; 9 Table of Contents • Altering the distribution channels of certain products by acquiring all or part of their dealer network or by exerting influence over their sale of replacement parts and attachments through their distribution channels; • Manufacturing their own attachments. Competition Our products do not depend upon proprietary technology to any significant degree, and therefore can be subject to intense competition. Competitive characteristics of our products include overall performance, ease of use, quality, safety, customer service and support, manufacturing lead times, global reach, brand reputation, breadth of product line and price. Our customers increasingly demand more technologically advanced and integrated products in certain cases and we must continue to develop our expertise and technical capabilities in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To retain our competitive position, we will need to invest continuously in research and development and improve our manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities Our operations and properties are subject to stringent U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties as well as air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace health and safety. We can be held responsible under these laws and regulations whether or not the original actions were legal and whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We could be responsible for payment of the full amount of any liability, whether or not any other responsible party also is liable. These laws and regulations affect a significant percentage of our operations, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. Further, they may require substantial clean-up costs for our properties, many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing operations, and the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions as these requirements change. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash-down wastes and sandblast material. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on, under or from other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, clean-up and monitoring requirements under U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. In prior years, we entered into settlement agreements with various environmental insurance providers with respect to litigation of claims under insurance policies issued by the providers to recover expenses incurred in connection with environmental and related proceedings. As a part of these settlement agreements, we released all of our rights to any future recovery under these policies. Loss of senior management The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Several members of our senior management team have been with us for over 20 years, including our President and Chief Operating Officer, who have each been with us for over 35 years. We may lose the services of key management personnel or fail to attract and develop additional personnel. 10 Table of Contents Underfunded benefit plans Our obligations under our postretirement benefit plan and certain foreign subsidiaries’ defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded. At some time in the future we may have to make significant cash payments to fund these plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of January 31, 2011, our projected benefit obligations under our defined benefit pension plans exceed the fair value of assets by $1.1 million. The underfunding in our defined benefit pension plans is due in part to fluctuations in the discount rate and financial markets that cause the valuation of assets to change. As of January 31, 2011 our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement benefit plan, which is not funded, was $7.4 million. We expect any required cash payments to our plans that are not fully funded will be made from future cash flows from operations. If our cash contributions are insufficient to adequately fund the plans to cover our future obligations, the performance of the pension plan assets do not meet our expectations or assumptions are modified, our contributions could be materially higher than we expect. This would reduce the cash available for our business. Changes in U.S. or foreign laws governing these plans could require us to make additional contributions and changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could require the recording of additional costs related to these plans. Impact of acquisitions We have historically expanded our business through acquisitions and expect we will do so in the future if appropriate opportunities arise. If we are not successful in integrating acquisitions, we may not realize the operating results we anticipated at the time of acquisition. In addition, industry downturns in the markets the acquired companies serve and general economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks, including: • Doing business in industries outside our present material handling business; • Difficulties in integrating operations and systems, and matching the business culture of the acquired business with our culture; • Difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • Difficulties in retaining customers and integrating customer bases; • Diversion of management’s attention from existing operations due to the integration of acquired businesses; • Assumption of unexpected liabilities. We may, in a bid to conserve cash for operations, undertake acquisitions that would be financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 