Item 1A. Risk Factors Cascade’s business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors and should also be aware that this list is not all 9 inclusive of existing risks. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and Cascade cannot predict those risks or the extent to which they may affect the Company’s business or financial performance. The rates we charge customers for gas distribution services are established by the OPUC and the WUTC. Their failure to approve rates, which provide for recovery of our costs and an adequate return on invested capital, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The rates and terms at which we resell gas to our customers or transport gas owned by large customers from the interstate pipeline connection to our customers’ facilities must be approved by the WUTC or the OPUC. The rates are designed to allow us to recover costs of providing such services and to earn an adequate return on our capital investment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to expand and improve our distribution system. The failure of the WUTC or the OPUC to approve on a timely basis requested rate increases to recover increased costs or to allow an adequate return could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Higher natural gas commodity prices and fluctuations in the price of gas may adversely affect our earnings. In recent years, natural gas commodity prices have increased dramatically due to growing demand, especially for power generation, and stagnant North American gas production. In Oregon, we have a Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) tariff, which provides for annual revisions in rates resulting from changes in the cost of purchased gas. The PGA tariff provides that 33 percent of any difference between actual purchased gas costs and estimated purchased gas costs incorporated into rates will be recognized as current income or expense. Accordingly, higher gas costs than those assumed in setting rates can adversely affect our results of operations. Notwithstanding our current rate structure, higher gas costs could also result in increased pressure on the WUTC or the OPUC to seek other means to reduce rates to a level that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our risk management policies and hedging activities cannot eliminate the risk of commodity price movements and may expose us to additional liabilities for which rate recovery may be disallowed. Our gas purchasing requirements expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures, including hedging activities. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with gas purchasing and hedging. These practices are subject to regulatory review in setting our PGA tariffs and, if found to be imprudent, could be disallowed. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by warmer than average weather. A large portion of our margin is derived from sales to space heating residential and commercial customers between November 15 and May 15, otherwise known as the winter heating season. Current rates are based on an assumption of average weather. Although we have a weather normalization mechanism in effect in Oregon, approximately 76 percent of our residential and commercial customers are in Washington, where a similar mechanism is not in effect. Therefore the Oregon mechanism does not fully insulate us from utility earnings volatility due to weather. As a result, we are not fully protected against warmer than average weather, which may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Customers’ conservation efforts may have a negative impact on our revenues. Higher gas costs and rates may result in increased conservation by customers, which can decrease sales and adversely affect results of operations. The OPUC authorized our conservation tariff, which is designed 10 to recover lost margin due to changes in residential and commercial customers’ consumption patterns. The conservation tariff is intended to adjust for increases or decreases in consumption attributable to annual changes in commodity costs or periodic changes in general rates and for deviations between actual and expected usage. The failure of the OPUC to extend the conservation tariff in the future could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company filed for a similar plan with the state of Washington in conjunction with its February 2006 rate case filing. The Company remains optimistic that a similar plan will be approved by the WUTC in its final rate order due no later than mid-January 2007. However, there is no certainty of outcome at this time. Certain of our properties and facilities may pose environmental risks requiring remediation, the cost of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We own, or previously owned, properties that may require environmental remediation or other action. Management has determined that there is no need to accrue any costs relating to environmental remediation. The Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that estimates of environmental remediation costs increase. There are no assurances that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from insurance or customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our gas distribution business is subject to increased competition and eroding price advantage. To the extent that competition increases, our profit margins may be negatively affected. In the residential market, we compete with suppliers of electricity, fuel oil, propane and, to a lesser extent, wood. We also compete with electricity and fuel oil for commercial applications. In the industrial market, we compete with all forms of energy. Competition among these forms of energy is based on price, reliability, efficiency and performance. Higher natural gas prices have eroded or, in some cases, eliminated the competitive price advantage of natural gas over alternative energy sources. If the higher gas price environment is sustained, our ability to attract new customers could be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our customer growth rate and results of operations. Volatility in the price of natural gas could result in large industrial customers switching to alternative energy sources and reduced revenues, earnings and cash flow. The market price of alternative energy sources such as coal, electricity, oil and steam is the primary competitive factor affecting the demand for the Company’s gas transportation services. Certain large industrial customers have, or may acquire, the capacity to be able to use one or more alternative energy sources or shift production to facilities outside the Company’s service area if the price of natural gas and delivery services increases significantly. Natural gas has typically been less expensive than these alternative energy sources. However, generally over the past four years, natural gas prices have been higher and more volatile, making some of these alternative energy sources more economical or, for other reasons, more attractive than natural gas. The Company cannot predict the future stability of natural gas prices. Should these customers convert their requirements to another form of energy, the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flow would be adversely affected. 11 Earnings and cash flow may be adversely affected by downturns in the economy. The Company’s operations are affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, which impact the amount of residential, industrial and commercial growth and actual gas consumption in the Company’s service territories. Many of the Company’s commercial and industrial customers use natural gas in the production of their products. During economic downturns, these customers may see a decrease in demand for their products, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the amount of natural gas they require for production. In addition, during periods of slow or little economic growth, energy conservation efforts often increase and the amount of uncollectible customer accounts often increases. These factors could adversely affect our financial condition. The cost of providing pension and post-retirement benefit plans is subject to changes in pension assumptions, fluctuations in the market value of plan assets and changing demographics, and may have a material effect on our financial results. The Company maintains a qualified medical contributory defined benefit pension plan, a non-qualified supplemental pension plan and a post-retirement benefit plan. We may be required to recognize a material increase or decrease in annual pension or post-retirement benefit expense based on changes in assumed interest rates, market returns, and other factors, and we may be required to record a charge to our balance sheet to the extent that benefit obligations exceed the fair value of the plan assets. The Company’s business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital markets. The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets as a source of liquidity and longer-term capital markets to fund at least a portion of its utility construction program and other capital expenditure requirements not satisfied by cash flow from its operations. If the Company is unable to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to pursue growth, replacements, and improvements could be adversely affected. Certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the Company’s credit rating may increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. In addition to further economic downturns and the overall health of the utility industry, such disruptions could include: · the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; · capital market conditions generally; · market prices for natural gas; or · terrorist attacks or threatened attacks. A downgrade in the Company’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services rate Cascade’s debt at “BBB+” with a stable outlook and “Baa1” with a stable outlook, respectively. Although the Company is not aware of any current plans of S&P or Moody’s to lower their respective ratings on Cascade’s debt, the Company cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not be downgraded. Although Cascade does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect its ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities. 12 Transporting natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and disruption of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. The occurrence of any of these events may not be covered by our insurance policies or recoverable through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to complete the planned merger with MDU Resources Group, Inc. could have a negative impact on the Company’s share price. The completion of our pending merger with MDU Resources Group, Inc. is subject to the approval by various regulatory authorities and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. The merger may not occur if that Company is unable to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or satisfy other closing conditions. Therefore, if the merger is not concluded, Cascade’s share price may be impacted. In anticipation of the planned merger with MDU Resources Group, Inc., personnel may decide to leave the Company. Individual employees may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles with MDU Resources. Issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with MDU Resources after the merger may cause them to voluntarily leave the Company for other career opportunities. Loss of significant numbers of employees, or employees in key positions, could have a detrimental impact on the Company’s ability to carry on certain routine business activities. To mitigate this risk, the Company has provided “Change-in-Control” incentives to employees in key roles to encourage them to stay with the Company at least through the completion of the merger. However, there can be no assurance that such employees will not leave the Company, or that we will be able to find adequate replacements if they do depart. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this report, the Company does not have any unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff. 