RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. Adverse weather conditions and crop disease can impose costs on our business. Fresh produce, including produce used in canning and other packaged food operations, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. For example, black sigatoka is a fungal disease that affects banana cultivation in most areas where they are grown commercially. The costs to control this disease and other infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. These infestations can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our business is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current market share. Many companies compete in our different businesses. However, only a few well-established companies operate on both a national and a regional basis with one or several branded product lines. We face strong competition from these and other companies in all our product lines. Important factors with respect to our competitors include the following: • Some of our competitors may have greater operating flexibility and, in certain cases, this may permit them to respond better to changes in the industry or to introduce new products and packaging more quickly and with greater marketing support. • Several of our packaged food product lines are sensitive to competition from national or regional brands, and many of our product lines compete with imports, private label products and fresh alternatives. • We cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or whether those actions will have a negative effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our present and future competitors, and our ability to compete could be adversely affected by our leveraged position. See “Business — Competition.” Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supplies often cause severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as lettuce, must be sold more quickly, while other items can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings are subject to seasonal variability. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including: • the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand; • the ability to process products during critical harvest periods; and • the timing and effects of ripening and perishability. Although banana production tends to be relatively stable throughout the year, banana pricing is seasonal because bananas compete against other fresh fruit that generally comes to market beginning in the summer. As a result, banana prices are typically higher during the first half of the year. Our fresh vegetables segment experiences some seasonality as reflected by higher earnings in the first half of the year. Also, there is a 11 Table of Contents seasonal aspect to our fresh-cut flower business, with peak demand generally around Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day. Currency exchange fluctuations may impact the results of our operations. We distribute our products in more than 90 countries throughout the world. Our international sales are usually transacted in U.S. dollars, and European and Asian currencies. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in both sourcing and selling locations. Although we enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts from time to time to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuation, our results of operations may still be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the yen-to-U.S. dollar and euro-to-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For instance, we currently estimate that a 1% change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the yen, the euro and the Swedish krona would impact our EBIT by approximately $2.7 million before accounting for foreign exchange hedges. Because we do not hedge against all of our foreign currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to foreign currency fluctuations. We face risks related to our former use of the pesticide DBCP. We formerly used dibromochloropropane, or DBCP, a nematocide that was used on a variety of crops throughout the world. The registration for DBCP with the U.S. government was cancelled in 1979 based in part on an apparent link to male sterility among factory workers. There are a number of pending lawsuits in the United States and other countries against the manufacturers of DBCP and the growers, including us, who used it in the past. The cost to defend or settle these lawsuits, and the costs to pay any judgments or settlements resulting from these lawsuits, or other lawsuits which might be brought, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Form 10-K. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations under the notes and our other debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of January 1, 2005, we had approximately $342 million in senior secured indebtedness and other structurally senior indebtedness, $1,430 million in senior unsecured indebtedness, including outstanding senior notes and debentures, and approximately $96 million in capital leases. In April 2005, we expect to complete an amendment of our existing senior secured credit facilities. We expect to obtain funds under $1 billion of the amended senior secured credit facilities (consisting of $700 million of term loan facilities and $300 million of revolving credit facilities). These funds will be used in part to repay the outstanding term loans under our existing senior secured credit facilities. In addition, we expect to tender for some of our outstanding senior notes. If the amendments to our senior secured credit facilities and our intended repurchase of senior notes had been completed on March 26, 2005, we would have had approximately $782 million in senior secured indebtedness and other structurally senior indebtedness, $1,155 million in senior unsecured indebtedness, including outstanding senior notes and debentures, and approximately $92 million in capital leases. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 12 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financing arrangements for the going-private merger transactions may increase our exposure to tax liability. A portion of our senior secured credit facility has been incurred by our foreign subsidiaries and was used to fund the going-private merger transactions. Although we believe, based in part upon the advice of our tax advisors, that our intended tax treatment of such transactions is appropriate, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could seek to characterize the going-private merger transactions in a manner that could result in the immediate recognition of taxable income by us. Any such immediate recognition of taxable income would result in a material tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. The indentures governing our senior notes due 2009, our senior notes due 2010, our senior notes due 2011, our debentures due 2013 and our senior secured credit facility contain various restrictive covenants that will limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock); • issue preferred stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens on our assets to secure debt; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets; and • transfer and sell assets. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indentures governing our senior notes due 2009, our senior notes due 2010, our senior notes due 2011, our debentures due 2013 and our senior secured credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare 13 Table of Contents all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. We face other risks in connection with our international operations. Our operations are heavily dependent upon products grown, purchased and sold internationally. In addition, our operations are a significant factor in the economies of many of the countries in which we operate, increasing our visibility and susceptibility to regulatory changes. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the following: • foreign countries could change regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; • in some countries, there is a risk that the government may expropriate assets; • some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; • political changes and economic crises may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate; • international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations; • in some countries, our operations are dependent on leases and other agreements; and • economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt production and distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. The European Union (“EU”) maintains banana regulations that impose quotas and tariffs on bananas. In April 2001, the EU reached agreements with the United States and Ecuador to implement a tariff-only import system no later than January 1, 2006. After reaching these agreements, the EU adjusted applicable quotas and amended rules for allocation of licenses for an interim regime preceding the future tariff-only regime. This interim regime began on July 1, 2001. Subsidiaries of Dole are entitled to licenses under the changed rules and are using the licenses in such a way as to maintain and maximize license rights. Following the 2001 agreement with the United States and Ecuador, the EU is committed to replace the quota system with a tariff-only system no later than January 1, 2006. On January 31, 2005, the EU formally notified the World Trade Organization of its intent to apply as of January 1, 2006 a single import duty of 230 euro per metric ton of bananas imported from Latin America to the EU. Following this announcement, Latin producing countries have until April 1, 2005 to request arbitration from the World Trade Organization to lower the tariff. It is too early to predict whether arbitration will occur and, if so, what specific tariff level will result from such arbitration. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, the subsequent response by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and other locations, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad may affect the markets in which we operate and our operations and profitability. From time to time in the past, our operations or personnel have been the targets of terrorist or criminal attacks, and the risk of such attacks impacts our operations and results in increased security costs. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or operators of United States-owned businesses outside the United States may occur, or hostilities could develop based on the current international situation. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets for our products, the United States economy and the economies of other places we source or sell our products is uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. 14 Table of Contents Our worldwide operations and products are highly regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations are subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the use and disposal of pesticides and other chemicals. These regulations directly affect day-to-day operations, and violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that these fines or penalties would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To maintain compliance with all of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations, we have been and may be required in the future to modify our operations, purchase new equipment or make capital improvements. Actions by regulators may require operational modifications or capital improvements at various locations. In addition, we have been and in the future may become subject to private lawsuits alleging that our operations caused personal injury or property damage. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. We have from time to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of which were material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe is adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. We are subject to transportation risks. An extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any extended disruption in the distribution of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption due to strike, natural disaster or otherwise, we cannot be sure that we would be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner. The use of herbicides and other hazardous substances in our operations may lead to environmental damage and result in increased costs to us. We use herbicides and other hazardous substances in the operation of our business. We may have to pay for the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at a price or under terms that are satisfactory to us. In such cases, payment of such costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Events or rumors relating to the DOLE brand could significantly impact our business. Consumer and institutional recognition of the DOLE trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high quality and safe food products are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with high quality and safe food products may materially adversely affect the value of the DOLE brand name and 15 Table of Contents demand for our products. We have licensed the DOLE brand name to several affiliated and unaffiliated companies for use in the United States and abroad. Acts or omissions by these companies over which we have no control may also have such adverse effects. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability. As of January 1, 2005, approximately 33% of our employees worked under various collective bargaining agreements. Some of our collective bargaining agreements will expire in fiscal 2005, although each agreement is subject to automatic renewals unless we or the union party to the agreement provides notice otherwise. Our other collective bargaining agreements will expire in later years. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on the portion of our business affected by the dispute, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Some of the information included in this Form 10-K and other materials filed or to be filed by us with the Commission contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include the words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan” or other words or expressions of similar meaning. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. The forward-looking statements include statements that reflect management’s beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations and intentions with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business, including statements relating to our business strategy and our current and future development plans. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial condition, results of operations and future performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this Form 10-K include those set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in this Item 1. We urge you to review carefully this Form 10-K, particularly the section “Risk Factors,” for a more complete discussion of the risks to our business. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements are also included in our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, press releases and other materials released to the public. Although we believe that at the time made, the expectations reflected in all of these forward-looking statements are and will be reasonable, any or all of the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and any other public statements that are made by us may prove to be incorrect. This may occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed in this Form 10-K, certain of which are beyond our control, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not regard the inclusion of a forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K, or other public communications that we might make, as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved, and you should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 