Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Fresh produce, including produce used in canning and other packaged food operations, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. For example, black sigatoka is a fungal disease that affects banana cultivation in most areas where they are grown commercially. The costs to control this disease and other infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. Moreover, there can be no assurance that available technologies 10 Table of Contents to control such infestations will continue to be effective. These infestations can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current market share. Many companies compete in our different businesses. However, only a few well-established companies operate on both a national and a regional basis with one or several branded product lines. We face strong competition from these and other companies in all our product lines. Important factors with respect to our competitors include the following: • Some of our competitors may have greater operating flexibility and, in certain cases, this may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products and packaging more quickly and with greater marketing support. • Several of our packaged food product lines are sensitive to competition from national or regional brands, and many of our product lines compete with imports, private label products and fresh alternatives. • We cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or whether those actions will have a negative effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our present and future competitors, and our ability to compete could be materially adversely affected by our leveraged position. See Item 1 — “Business.” Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supplies often cause severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as lettuce, must be sold more quickly, while other items can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be, or have been harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings are subject to seasonal variability. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including: • the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand; • the ability to process products during critical harvest periods; and • the timing and effects of ripening and perishability. Although banana production tends to be relatively stable throughout the year, banana pricing is seasonal because bananas compete against other fresh fruit that generally comes to market beginning in the summer. As a result, banana prices are typically higher during the first half of the year. Our fresh vegetables segment experiences some seasonality as reflected by higher earnings in the first half of the year. 11 Table of Contents Currency exchange fluctuations may impact the results of our operations. We distribute our products in more than 90 countries throughout the world. Our international sales are usually transacted in U.S. dollars, and European and Asian currencies. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in both sourcing and selling locations. Although we enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts from time to time to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuation, our results of operations may still be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the yen-to-U.S. dollar and euro-to-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For instance, we currently estimate that a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen, euro and Swedish krona would have reduced 2008 operating income by approximately $76 million excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange hedges. Because we do not hedge against all of our foreign currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to foreign currency fluctuations. Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel, paper, plastics and resins, could adversely affect our operating results. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit and vegetables have in the past negatively impacted our operating results, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. For example, the price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations, including for fuel used in ships that we own or charter, is an important variable component of transportation costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially in recent years, and there can be no assurance that there will not be further increases in the future. In addition, fuel and transportation cost is a significant component of the price of much of the produce that we purchase from growers or distributors, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on to our customers the increased costs we incur in these respects. The cost of paper and tinplate are also significant to us because some of our products are packed in cardboard boxes or cans for shipment. If the price of paper or tinplate increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease. Increased costs for paper and tinplate have in the past negatively impacted our operating income, and there can be no assurance that these increased costs will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. We face risks related to our former use of the pesticide DBCP. We formerly used dibromochloropropane, or DBCP, a nematocide that was used on a variety of crops throughout the world. The registration for DBCP with the U.S. government was cancelled in 1979 based in part on an apparent link to male sterility among chemical factory workers who produced DBCP. There are a number of pending lawsuits in the United States and other countries against the manufacturers of DBCP and the growers, including us, who used it in the past. The cost to defend or settle these lawsuits, and the costs to pay any judgments or settlements resulting from these lawsuits, or other lawsuits which might be brought, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings — DBCP Cases.” Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations under the notes and our other debt obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, our substantial indebtedness may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including the obligations relating to our debt obligations; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes or make such financing more costly; 12 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets (beyond those assets currently classified as “assets held-for-sale”) to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; and • limit, along with the restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and debt security indentures, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. The indentures governing our senior notes due 2010, our senior notes due 2011, our debentures due 2013 and our senior secured notes due 2014, and our senior secured credit facilities, contain various restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock); • issue preferred stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens on our assets to secure debt; • engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; • place restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets; and • transfer and sell assets. We are subject to a “springing covenant” in our asset based lending revolving credit facility, which would only become effective if the availability under our revolving credit facility were to fall below $35 million for any eight consecutive business days, which it has never done during the life of such facility. As of the last day of the fiscal year ending January 3, 2009, we had $172.8 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. In the event that such availability were to fall below $35 million for such eight consecutive business day period, the “springing covenant” would require that our fixed charge coverage ratio, defined as (x) consolidated EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then most recently ended, divided by (y) consolidated fixed charges for such four fiscal quarter period, equal or exceed 1.00:1.00. The most recent calculation of the fixed charge coverage ratio was performed as of the end of the fiscal year 2008, at which time the ratio equaled 1.38:1.00. With respect to limitations on asset sales, we are permitted by our senior secured credit facilities and our note and debenture indentures to sell up to $100 million of any of our assets in any fiscal year, and we are permitted to sell an unlimited amount of additional assets that are not material to the operations of Dole Food Company, Inc. and its 13 Table of Contents subsidiaries, so long as we comply, on a pro forma basis, with the first priority senior secured leverage ratio test set forth in the following paragraph, as of the last day of the most recently completed four fiscal quarter test period for which financial statements are available. In general, 75% of any asset sale proceeds must be in the form of cash, cash equivalents or replacement assets, and the proceeds must be reinvested in the business within 12 months (pending which they may be used to repay revolving debt) or used to permanently pay down term debt or revolving debt under our senior secured credit facilities. In addition, pursuant to the recently adopted amendments to our senior secured term credit facility, we must keep our first priority senior secured leverage ratio at or below: 3.25 to 1.00 as of the last day of the fiscal quarters ending March 28, 2009 through October 10, 2009; 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of the fiscal quarters ending January 2, 2010 through March 26, 2011; 2.75 to 1.00 as of the last day of the fiscal quarters ending June 18, 2011 through March 24, 2012; and 2.50 to 1.00 as of the last day of the fiscal quarters ending June 16, 2012 through March 23, 2013. The first priority senior secured leverage ratio, for each such date, is the ratio of our Consolidated First Priority Secured Debt to our Consolidated EBITDA (as such terms are defined in the amended senior secured term credit facility) for the four consecutive fiscal quarter period most recently ended on or prior to such date. At January 3, 2009, the first priority senior secured leverage ratio would have been less than 3.00 to 1.00. Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt securities. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities or any other debt instrument, lenders representing more than 50% of our senior secured term credit facility or more than 50% of our senior secured revolving credit facility, or the indenture trustees or holders of at least 25% of any series of our debt securities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, with respect to the revolving credit and letter of credit components of our senior secured credit facilities, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness were to so accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, in which event we likely would seek reorganization or protection under bankruptcy or other, similar laws. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. To service our debt, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include among others: • economic and competitive conditions; • changes in laws and regulations; • operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures we may experience; and • delays in implementing any strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. If we are required to take any actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements, in any of 14 Table of Contents which events the default and cross-default risks set forth in the immediately preceding risk factor would become relevant. In connection with our recent refinancing of our 2009 senior notes, we amended our senior secured credit facilities in order to be able to grant liens under the senior secured notes due 2014. Such amendments, among other things, did the following: (i) increase the applicable margin for (x) the term loan facilities to LIBOR plus 5.00% or the base rate plus 4.00% subject to a 50 basis points step down if the priority senior secured leverage ratio is less than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00 and (y) for the revolving credit facility, to a range of LIBOR plus 3.00% to 3.50% or the base rate plus 2.00% to 2.50% and (ii) provide for a LIBOR floor of 3.00% per annum for our term loan facilities. The resulting increase in the interest rates under the senior secured credit facilities, as well as the increased interest rate of the 2014 notes as compared to the 2009 notes, will have a material effect upon our cash available to fund operations, make capital expenditures or repay our debt, as compared to prior periods. Furthermore, our 7.25% senior notes are due on June 15, 2010. At present, $400 million in principal amount of these senior notes are outstanding. Although we are analyzing different refinancing and repayment alternatives, if they are not sufficient to refinance and/or repay all of the 2010 notes, and some of the 2010 notes remain outstanding after the maturity date, an event of default would occur under the indenture governing the 2010 notes. If such an event of default were to occur, it would constitute an event of default under the cross-default provisions of our other senior notes and debentures indentures and of our senior secured credit facilities, in which event the indenture trustee or holders of at least 25% of the senior notes or debentures of any series, or lenders representing more than 50% of our senior secured term credit facility or more than 50% of our senior secured revolving debt facility could give notice of acceleration with respect to such series or facility, as appropriate, in which event we likely would seek reorganization or protection under bankruptcy or other, similar laws. A breach of a covenant or other provision or failure to pay under our parent’s loan agreement may result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities. Our parent, DHM Holding Company, Inc., entered into an amended and restated loan agreement for $135 million on March 17, 2008 in connection with its investment in Westlake Wellbeing Properties, LLC. The obligations under such loan agreement mature on March 3, 2010. In addition, a $20 million principal payment on the loan is due on June 17, 2009. Failure to make this payment when due would give lenders under this loan agreement the right to accelerate that debt. Because our parent is a party to our senior secured credit facilities, any failure of our parent to pay the $20 million principal payment by June 17, 2009 or any other default under the parent’s agreement would result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities under the existing cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions set forth in those senior secured credit facilities. If such a default were to occur, our senior secured credit facilities could be declared due at the request of the lenders holding a majority of our senior secured debt under the applicable agreement and unless the default were waived we would no longer have the ability to request advances or letters of credit under our revolving credit facility. The acceleration of the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities would also allow the indenture trustees or holders of 25% or more in principal amount of any series of our notes or debentures the right to accelerate the maturity of such series. Although our parent has assured us that it expects to have sufficient funds available from its shareholders to timely make the $20 million principal payment by June 17, 2009, we cannot assure you that this will occur. Pursuant to the indenture governing our newly issued 13.875% senior secured notes due 2014, Dole cannot pay a dividend (other than a stock dividend payable in qualified capital stock) if there is a continuing default or event of default, if our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio would be less than or equal to 2.0:1.0 (as of January 3, 2009, it exceeded 2.25:1.00), or if the sum of all dividends paid after March 18, 2009 would exceed the sum of: $15 million; plus (after our 7.25% senior notes due 2010 are no longer outstanding, and only if our consolidated leverage ratio would be less than or equal to 4.00:1.00 (at January 3, 2009, that ratio exceeded 5.00:1.00)) 50% of our cumulative consolidated net income (or, if negative, 100% of such loss) beginning March 29, 2009; plus 100% of the value of any contribution to capital received or proceeds from the issuance of qualified capital stock (or, from the sale of warrants, options, or other rights to acquire the same); plus 100% of the net cash proceeds of any equity contribution received from a holder of our capital stock; plus the aggregate amount returned in cash on or with respect to investments (other than “Permitted Investments,” as defined in the indenture) made after March 18, 2009; plus the value we receive from the disposition of all or any portion of such investments; plus the fair market value of 15 Table of Contents any unrestricted subsidiary that is redesignated as a restricted subsidiary. Dole currently expects that as a result of these provisions the amount of dividends that Dole will be able to pay will be limited to no more than $15 million in 2009. In the event that our parent does not receive sufficient funds from its shareholders to make the entire $20 million payment by June 17, 2009 described above, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make a dividend to our parent to cover any such shortfall, in which event the consequences set forth in the first paragraph of this risk factor would occur. As noted above, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness or if any amounts are accelerated under our existing senior notes, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, in which event we likely would seek reorganization or protection under bankruptcy or other, similar laws. We may not have sufficient funds, or be permitted by our senior secured credit facilities, to repurchase our senior notes due 2010, our senior notes due 2011, our debentures due 2013 and/or our senior secured notes due 2014 upon a change of control. In the event of a “change of control” (as defined in the indentures governing our notes and debentures), we must offer to purchase the notes and debentures at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. In the event that we are required to make such an offer, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient funds available to purchase all or any of the notes or debentures, and we may be required to refinance them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to accomplish a refinancing or, if a refinancing were to occur, that it would be accomplished on commercially reasonable terms. Our senior secured credit facilities prohibit us from repurchasing any of our notes or debentures, except under limited circumstances. Our senior secured credit facilities also provide that certain change of control events would constitute an event of default. In the event a change of control occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing our notes and debentures, we could seek the consent of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to purchase notes and debentures. If we did not obtain such a consent, we would remain prohibited from purchasing the notes and debentures. In this case, our failure to so purchase would constitute an event of default under the indentures governing the notes and debentures. The cross-default provisions in our senior secured credit facilities and in the indentures governing our debt securities have been described in the preceding risk factors. The change of control provisions in the indentures governing our notes and debentures may not be triggered in the event we consummate a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction, unless such transaction constitutes a change of control under the definition set forth in the indentures. Such a transaction may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if it does, may not involve a change in the magnitude required under the definition of change of control in the indentures to trigger our obligation to repurchase the notes and debentures. Except as otherwise described above, the indentures do not contain provisions that permit the holders of the notes and debentures to require us to repurchase or redeem the notes or debentures in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. Some of our debt, including the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of January 3, 2009, $1.0 billion, or 47% of our total indebtedness, was subject to variable interest rates. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, the interest rates on those borrowings may vary depending on the base rate or Eurodollar Rate (LIBOR). A 1% increase in the weighted average interest rates on our variable rate debt outstanding as of January 3, 2009, would result in higher interest expense of approximately $10 million per year. 16 Table of Contents The financing arrangements for the going-private merger transactions in 2003 may increase our exposure to tax liability. A portion of our senior secured credit facilities have been incurred by our foreign subsidiaries and were used to fund the going-private merger transactions in 2003 through which Mr. Murdock became our sole, indirect stockholder. Although we believe, based in part upon the advice of our tax advisors, that our tax treatment of such transactions was appropriate, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could seek to characterize the going-private merger and related financing transactions in a manner that could result in the immediate recognition of taxable income by us. These transactions are currently being reviewed by the Internal Revenue Service as part of our 2003 federal income tax audit. Any immediate recognition of taxable income would result in utilization of available tax losses, and could also potentially result in a material tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face other risks in connection with our international operations. Our operations are heavily dependent upon products grown, purchased and sold internationally. In addition, our operations are a significant factor in the economies of many of the countries in which we operate, increasing our visibility and susceptibility to legal or regulatory changes. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the following: • foreign countries could change laws and regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; • in some countries, there is a risk that the government may expropriate assets; • some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; • political changes and economic crises may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate; • international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations; • in some countries, our operations are dependent on leases and other agreements; and • economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt production and distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. Banana imports from Latin America are subject to a tariff of 176 euros per metric ton for entry into the EU market. Under the EU’s previous banana regime, banana imports from Latin America were subject to a tariff of 75 euros per metric ton and were also subject to both import license requirements and volume quotas. These license requirements and volume quotas had the effect of limiting access to the EU banana market. The increase in the applicable tariff and the elimination of the volume restrictions applicable to Latin American bananas may increase volatility in the market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. See Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Other Matters.” In 2005, we received a tax assessment from Honduras of approximately $137 million (including the claimed tax, penalty, and interest through the date of assessment) relating to the disposition of all of our interest in Cervecería Hondureña, S.A in 2001. We have been contesting the tax assessment. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” We may be required to pay significant penalties under European antitrust laws. The European Commission (the “EC”) issued a decision imposing a €45.6 million fine against Dole and its German subsidiary (the “Decision”) on October 15, 2008. On December 24, 2008, we appealed the Decision by filing an Application for Annulment (the “Application”) with the European Court of First Instance (the “CFI”). On December 3, 2008, the EC agreed in writing that if Dole made an initial payment of $10 million to the EC on or before January 22, 2009, then the EC would stay the deadline for a provisional payment, or coverage by a 17 Table of Contents prime bank guaranty, of the remaining balance (plus interest as from January 22, 2009), until April 30, 2009. Dole made this initial $10 million payment on January 21, 2009. We believe that we have not violated the European competition laws and that our Application has substantial legal merit, both for an annulment of the Decision and fine in their entirety, or for a substantial reduction of the fine, but no assurances can be given that we will be successful on appeal. Furthermore, the initial payment and provision of a prime bank guaranty could materially impact our liquidity. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of our appeal of the European Commission’s Decision. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings — European Union Antitrust Inquiry.” Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, the subsequent response by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and other locations, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad may affect the markets in which we operate and our operations and profitability. From time to time in the past, our operations or personnel have been the targets of terrorist or criminal attacks, and the risk of such attacks impacts our operations and results in increased security costs. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or operators of United States-owned businesses outside the United States may occur, or hostilities could develop based on the current international situation. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets for our products, the United States economy and the economies of other places we source or sell our products is uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. Our worldwide operations and products are highly regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations are subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the use and disposal of pesticides and other chemicals. These regulations directly affect day-to-day operations, and violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that these fines or penalties would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To maintain compliance with all of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations, we have been and may be required in the future to modify our operations, purchase new equipment or make capital improvements. Further, we may recall a product (voluntarily or otherwise) if we or the regulators believe it presents a potential risk. In addition, we have been and in the future may become subject to lawsuits alleging that our operations caused personal injury or property damage. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. We have from time to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of which were material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to transportation risks. An extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any extended disruption in the distribution of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption due to strike, natural disasters or otherwise, we cannot be sure that we would be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner. The use of herbicides and other potentially hazardous substances in our operations may lead to environmental damage and result in increased costs to us. We use herbicides and other potentially hazardous substances in the operation of our business. We may have to pay for the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at a price or under terms that are satisfactory to us. In such cases, payment of such costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Events or rumors relating to the DOLE brand could significantly impact our business. Consumer and institutional recognition of the DOLE trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high quality and safe food products are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with high quality and safe food products may materially adversely affect the value of the DOLE brand name and demand for our products. We have licensed the DOLE brand name to several affiliated and unaffiliated companies for use in the United States and abroad. Acts or omissions by these companies over which we have no control may also have such adverse effects. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability. As of January 3, 2009, approximately 35% of our employees worldwide worked under various collective bargaining agreements. Some of our collective bargaining agreements will expire in fiscal 2009. Our other collective bargaining agreements will expire in later years. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on the portion of our business affected by the dispute, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 