Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS In addition to the various risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we have assessed in our risk assessment process or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Fresh produce, including produce used in canning and other packaged food operations, is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. This risk is particularly true with respect to regions or countries from which we source a significant percentage of our products. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. For example, black sigatoka is a fungal disease that affects banana cultivation in most areas where they are grown commercially. The costs to control this disease and other infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. Moreover, there can be no assurance that available technologies to control such infestations will continue to be effective. These infestations can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current market share. Many companies compete in our different businesses. However, only a few well-established companies operate on both a national and a regional basis with one or several branded product lines. We face strong competition from these and other companies in all our product lines. Important factors with respect to our competitors include the following: • Some of our competitors may have greater operating flexibility and, in certain cases, this may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products and packaging more quickly and with greater marketing support. • Several of our packaged food product lines are sensitive to competition from national or regional brands, and many of our product lines compete with imports, private label products and fresh alternatives. • We cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or whether those actions will have a negative effect on us. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our present and future competitors. See Item 1 — “Business.” Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supply often causes severe price competition in our businesses. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as lettuce, must be sold more quickly, while other items can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings are subject to seasonal variability. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including: • the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand; • the ability to process products during critical harvest periods; and • the timing and effects of ripening and perishability. Although banana production tends to be relatively stable throughout the year, banana pricing is seasonal because bananas compete against other fresh fruit that generally comes to market beginning in the summer. As a result, banana prices are typically higher during the first half of the year. Our fresh vegetables segment experiences some seasonality as reflected by higher earnings in the first half of the year. Our packaged foods segment experiences peak demand during some well-known holidays and observances. Currency exchange fluctuations may impact the results of our operations. Our nearly 200 products are sourced, grown, processed, marketed and distributed in more than 90 countries throughout the world. Our international sales are usually transacted in U.S. dollars, and European and Asian currencies. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in both sourcing and selling locations. Although we enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts from time to time to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuation, our results of operations may still be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the yen-to-U.S. dollar and euro-to-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For instance, we currently estimate that a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen, euro and Swedish krona would have reduced 2011 operating income by approximately $42 million, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange hedges. Because we do not hedge against all of our foreign currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to foreign currency fluctuations. 13 Table of Contents Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel, paper, plastics and resins, could adversely affect our operating results. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit and vegetables have in the past negatively impacted our operating results, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. For example, the price of bunker fuel used in shipping operations, including fuel used in ships that we own or charter, is an important variable component of transportation costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially in recent years, and there can be no assurance that there will not be further increases in the future. In addition, fuel and transportation cost is a significant component of the price of much of the produce that we purchase from growers or distributors, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on to our customers the increased costs we incur in these respects. The cost of paper and tinplate are also significant to us because some of our products are packed in cardboard boxes or cans for shipment. If the price of paper or tinplate increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease. Increased costs for paper and tinplate have in the past negatively impacted our operating income, and there can be no assurance that these increased costs will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. We face risks related to our former use of the pesticide DBCP. We formerly used dibromochloropropane, or DBCP, a nematocide that was used by growers on a variety of crops throughout the world. The registration for DBCP with the U.S. government was cancelled in 1979 based in part on an apparent link to male sterility among chemical factory workers who produced DBCP. There are a number of pending lawsuits in the United States and other countries against the manufacturers of DBCP and the growers, including us, who used it in the past. The cost to defend these lawsuits, and the costs to pay any judgments or settlements resulting from these lawsuits, or other lawsuits which might be brought, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of herbicides and other potentially hazardous substances in our operations may lead to environmental damage and result in increased costs to us. We use herbicides and other potentially hazardous substances in the operation of our business. We may have to pay for the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at a price or under terms that are satisfactory to us. In such cases, payment of such costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face other risks in connection with our international operations. Our operations are heavily dependent upon products grown, purchased and sold internationally. In addition, our operations are a significant factor in the economies of many of the countries in which we operate, increasing our visibility and susceptibility to legal or regulatory changes. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the following (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Other Matters”): • foreign countries could change laws and regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; 14 Table of Contents • in some countries, there is a risk that the government may expropriate assets; • some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; • political changes and economic crises may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate; • international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations; • economic sanctions may be imposed on some countries, which could disrupt the markets for products we sell, even if we do not sell into the target country; • in some countries, our operations are dependent on leases and other agreements; and • economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt production and distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. In 2005, we received a tax assessment from Honduras of approximately $137 million (including the claimed tax, penalty, and interest through the date of assessment) relating to the disposition of all of our interest in Cervecería Hondureña, S.A. in 2001. We have been contesting the tax assessment. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We may be required to pay significant penalties under European antitrust laws. The European Commission, or EC, issued a decision ( the “Decision”) imposing a €45.6 million fine against Dole and its German subsidiary on October 15, 2008. On December 24, 2008, we appealed the Decision by filing an Application for Annulment, or Application, with the European General Court. On December 3, 2008, the EC agreed in writing that if Dole made an initial payment of $10 million (€7.6 million) to the EC on or before January 22, 2009, then the EC would stay the deadline for a provisional payment, or coverage by a prime bank guaranty, of the remaining balance (plus interest as from January 22, 2009), until April 30, 2009. Dole made this initial $10 million payment on January 21, 2009, and Dole provided the required bank guaranty for the remaining balance of the fine to the EC by the deadline of April 30, 2009. We believe that we have not violated the European competition laws and that our Application has substantial legal merit, both for an annulment of the Decision and fine in their entirety, or for a substantial reduction of the fine, but no assurances can be given that we will be successful on appeal. Furthermore, the ultimate resolution of these items could materially impact our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of our appeal of the EC’s Decision. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The global economic downturn could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue, which could adversely affect the results of our operations, and we cannot predict the extent or duration of these trends. As a result of the global economic downturn, consumers may reduce their purchases and seek value pricing, which may affect sales and pricing of some of our products. Such trends could adversely affect the results of our operations and there can be no assurance whether or when consumer confidence will return and a solid, long-term recovery ensue. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. The global capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption over the past several years, sometimes making it difficult for companies to access those markets. We depend in part on stable, liquid and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash 15 Table of Contents flows, access to capital and credit markets and existing revolving credit agreement will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets. The ongoing sovereign debt issue in the European Union, and related European restructuring efforts, may result in a decrease in the value of European currencies, including the euro and Swedish krona, against the U.S. dollar, which in turn could adversely impact our sales and working capital denominated in such currencies. In addition, instability in global credit markets, and/or further economic deterioration in Europe could adversely impact demand for our products and product pricing. The global economic downturn may have other impacts on participants in our industry, which cannot be fully predicted. The full impact of the global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a bank, insurance company, supplier, customer or other financial partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressures in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors that could have wide ranging impacts on the future of the industry. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, the subsequent response by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and other locations, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad may affect the markets in which we operate and our operations and profitability. From time to time in the past, our operations or personnel have been the targets of terrorist or criminal attacks, and the risk of such attacks impacts our operations and results in increased security costs. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or operators of United States-owned businesses outside the United States may occur, or hostilities could develop based on the current international situation. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets for our products, the United States economy and the economies of other places in which we source or sell our products is uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. Our worldwide operations and products are highly regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and the environment. Our worldwide operations are subject to a broad range of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the use and disposal of pesticides and other chemicals. These regulations directly affect day-to-day operations, and violations of these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that these fines or penalties would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To maintain compliance with all of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations, we have been and may be required in the future to modify our operations, purchase new equipment or make capital improvements. Further, we may recall a product (voluntarily or otherwise) if we or the regulators believe it presents a potential risk. In addition, we have been and in the future may become subject to lawsuits alleging that our operations and products caused personal injury or property damage. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. We have from time to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of which were material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. For example, in the fall of 2006, a third party from whom we and others had purchased spinach recalled certain packaged fresh spinach due to contamination by E. coli O157:H7. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance, however, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. We are subject to transportation risks. An extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any extended disruption in the distribution of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption due to strike, natural disasters or otherwise, we cannot be sure that we would be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner. Events or rumors relating to the DOLE brand could significantly impact our business. Consumer and institutional recognition of the DOLE trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high quality and safe food products are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with high quality and safe food products may materially adversely affect the value of the DOLE brand name and demand for our products. We have licensed the DOLE brand name to several affiliated and unaffiliated companies for use in the United States and abroad. Acts or omissions by these companies over which we have no control may also have such adverse effects. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 36% of our employees worldwide worked under various collective bargaining agreements. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on the portion of our business affected by the dispute, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations under our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.5 billion in senior secured indebtedness, $155 million in senior unsecured indebtedness, approximately $57 million in capital leases and approximately $35 million in unsecured notes payable and other indebtedness. 17 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our substantial indebtedness may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes or make such financing more costly; • result in a triggering of customary cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions with respect to certain of our debt obligations if an event of default or acceleration occurs under one of our other debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets (beyond those assets currently classified as “assets held-for-sale”) to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including fluctuations in market interest rates or a downturn in our business; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; and • limit, along with the restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and senior note indentures, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. To service our debt, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include among others: • economic and competitive conditions; • changes in laws and regulations; • operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures we may experience; and • delays in implementing any strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. If we are required to take any actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot give assurance that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to 18 Table of Contents satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements, in any of which events the default and cross-default risks set forth in the risk factor below titled “Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks” would become relevant. Subject to the restrictions in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our 8.75% debentures due 2013 (“2013 Debentures”), our 13.875% senior secured notes due 2014 (“2014 Notes”) and our 8% senior secured notes due 2016 (“2016 Notes”), we and certain of our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our 2013 Debentures, our 2014 Notes and our 2016 Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. The indentures governing our 2013 Debentures, our 2014 Notes, our 2016 Notes and our senior secured credit facilities, contain various restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock); • issue preferred stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens on our assets to secure debt; • engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; • place restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; • merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets; and • transfer and sell assets. Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt securities. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to customary cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities or some of our other debt instruments, lenders representing more than 50% of our senior secured term credit facility or more than 50% of our senior secured revolving credit facility, or any indenture trustee or holders of at least 25% of any series of our debt securities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, with respect to the revolving credit and letter of credit components of our senior secured credit facilities, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness were to so accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot give assurance that our assets would be sufficiently liquid to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness on an accelerated basis. 19 Table of Contents Some of our debt, including the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $1.0 billion, or 60%, of our total indebtedness, was subject to variable interest rates. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, the interest rates on those borrowings may vary depending on the base rate or Eurodollar Rate (“LIBOR”). A 1% increase in the weighted average interest rates on our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011, would result in higher interest expense of approximately $7 million per year. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are a “controlled company,” controlled by David H. Murdock, whose interests in our business may be different from yours. David H. Murdock and his affiliates own 51,710,000 shares, or approximately 58.1%, of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Murdock and his affiliates will, for the foreseeable future, have significant influence over our management and affairs. He and his controlled companies are able, subject to applicable law, to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and control actions to be taken by us and our Board of Directors, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors so elected will have the authority, subject to the terms of our indebtedness and the rules and regulations of the NYSE, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. It is possible that the interests of Mr. Murdock may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. The value of our common stock could be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; • our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; • unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; • fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and • general economic or political conditions. Our charter documents contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following: • division of our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • removal of directors by stockholders by a supermajority of two-thirds of the outstanding shares; • ability of the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series without stockholder approval; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board of Directors; and • prohibitions on our stockholders from acting by written consent and limitations on calling special meetings. 20 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may lower our stock price. If Mr. Murdock were to sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that Mr. Murdock might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock, regardless of his actual plans. In connection with a trust transaction that occurred at the time of our initial public offering, an affiliate of Mr. Murdock agreed to sell to the trust 24,000,000 shares of our common stock deliverable upon exchange of the trust’s securities. Although the affiliate has the option to settle its obligation to the trust in cash, all such shares could be delivered upon exchange of the trust’s securities beginning on November 1, 2012. Any such shares delivered upon exchange will be freely tradable under the Securities Act. Following our October 2009 initial public offering, we registered 6,000,000 shares of common stock that were reserved for issuance under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. We do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends to our stockholders for the foreseeable future. The agreements governing our indebtedness also restrict our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Stockholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell our common stock and may lose some or all of the amount of their investment. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Risks Relating to Our Information Systems Our electronic information and our information system assets may be made unavailable, leaked, or altered due to a computer security incident, which could adversely affect the results of our operations, and we cannot predict the extent or duration of these incidents. Although our computer systems are distributed in many geographic areas, they are connected together in a private network. A widespread computer security incident such as virus infection may significantly disrupt our operations and business processes. In such case, we may have to operate manually which may result in significant delay in the delivery of our products to our customers or damage to the fresh fruit and vegetable products. Our customers could refuse to continue to do business with us and prematurely terminate or reduce existing contracts resulting in a significant reduction of our operating revenue. We have intellectual property, trade secrets and confidential business information that are stored in electronic formats that could be leaked to competitors or the public due to a computer security incidents which may result in loss of competitive position and market share. We also have personal confidential information stored in Company controlled systems. This information, if stolen or leaked can result in significant financial and legal risk. We may be targeted by computer hackers from the internet, from business partners’ networks connected to our network, or from employees for specific purposes such as financial gain, political or ideological motives or otherwise simply to damage our reputation, which may result in significant decline in consumer preference for our products in certain geographic region or globally and could potentially reduce our market share. Although we believe we have implemented reasonable industry best practices, processes and technologies to protect our information and information systems, recovery from the above computer incidents could be 21 Table of Contents expensive. Rapidly raising and maintaining higher standards of computer security practices in our business globally may require significant initial investment and higher operating costs and therefore could negatively impact our operating income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 