Item 1A. Risk Factors: An investment in our common stock involves numerous types of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the disclosures under “Forward Looking Information” above in evaluating our Company and any potential investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating To Our Business: If we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and customer demands in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could materially suffer. Customer tastes and fashion trends, particularly for women’s apparel, are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Accordingly, any failure by us to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our merchandise, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. If we miscalculate either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would adversely affect our margins and results of operations. Existing and increased competition in the women’s retail apparel industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and market share. The women’s retail apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with discount stores, mass merchandisers, department stores, off-price retailers, specialty stores, and internet-based retailers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Many of our competitors continue 7 Table of Contents to be promotional and reduce their selling prices. In some cases our competitors are expanding into markets in which we have a significant market presence. As a result of this competition, including close-out sales and going-out-of-business sales by other women’s apparel retailers, we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures, as well as, loss of market share, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unusual weather, natural disasters or similar events may adversely affect our sales or operations. Extreme changes in weather patterns or natural disasters can influence customer trends and shopping habits. For example, heavy rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions would adversely affect our business. Extreme weather patterns, natural disasters, power outages, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events could reduce customer traffic in our stores and likewise disrupt our ability to conduct operations, which could materially and adversely affect us. We source a significant portion of our merchandise directly and indirectly from overseas, and changes, disruptions or other problems affecting the Company’s merchandise supply chain, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our merchandise is manufactured overseas principally in the Far East. We directly import some of this merchandise and indirectly import the remaining merchandise from domestic vendors who acquire the merchandise from foreign sources. As a result, political instability or other events resulting in the disruption of trade from other countries, increased security requirements for imported merchandise, or the imposition of additional regulations relating to or duties on imports, could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, increased transportation costs or disruption of the means by which merchandise is transported to us could cause significant cost increases or interruptions of our supply chain. If we are forced to source merchandise from other countries or other domestic vendors with foreign sources in different countries, those goods may be more expensive or of a different or inferior quality from the ones we now sell. Furthermore, the deterioration in any of our key vendors’ financial condition, their failure to perform as we expect, the failure to follow our vendor guidelines or comply with applicable laws and regulations could expose us to operational, competitive and legal risks. If we were not able to timely or adequately replace the merchandise we currently source with merchandise produced elsewhere, or if our vendors fail to perform as we expect, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our costs are affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Because we purchase a significant portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers, our cost of these goods is affected by the fluctuation of the local currencies where these goods are produced against the dollar. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and, if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, decrease our gross margins and ultimately our earnings. Accordingly, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continuation of, or further deterioration in, the current adverse economic conditions and the general economy or outlook and its related impact on consumer confidence and spending may materially and adversely affect consumer demand for our apparel and accessories and our results of operations. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our apparel and accessories, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel and energy costs, salaries and wage rates and other sources of income, tax rates, home values, consumer net worth, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence or consumer perceptions of economic conditions or trends. The current adverse economic and credit 8 Table of Contents markets along with other factors have significantly weakened many of these drivers of consumer spending habits. As a result, consumer confidence and spending have significantly deteriorated and may continue to do so for an extended period of time, which may continue to adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or uncertainties also generally cause consumers to defer purchases of discretionary items, such as our merchandise or by purchasing cheaper alternatives to our merchandise, all of which may also adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. In addition, numerous events, whether or not related to actual economic conditions, such as downturns in the stock markets, acts of war or terrorism, political unrest or natural disasters, or similar events, may also dampen consumer confidence, and accordingly, lead to reduced consumer spending. A continuation or worsening of the current economic downturn and reduction in consumer confidence could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure, disruption or security breach relating to our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on our existing information technology systems for merchandise operations including merchandise planning, replenishment, pricing, ordering, markdowns and product life cycle management. In addition to merchandise operations, we utilize our information technology systems for our distribution processes, as well as our financial systems including accounts payable, general ledger, accounts receivable, sales, banking, inventory and fixed assets. Any disruption in the operation of our information technology systems, or our failure to continue to upgrade or improve such systems could adversely affect our business. In addition, any security breach or other problem that results in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, such as personally identifiable information and payment information, could adversely affect our standing with customers and expose us to the risk of litigation and liability. Any such occurrences could result in reputational damage or loss of business or goodwill and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption or shutdown of our centralized distribution center or transportation network could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The distribution of our products is centralized in one distribution center in Charlotte, North Carolina and distributed through our network of third party freight carriers. The merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution center where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores and subsequently delivered to the stores by our third party freight carriers. If the distribution center or our third party freight carriers were to be shutdown or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. Such problems could occur as the result of any loss, destruction or impairment of our ability to use our distribution center, as well as any broader problem generally affecting the ability to ship goods into our distribution center or delivery to our stores. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the distribution center and/or our transportation network. Our ability to attract consumers and grow our revenues is dependant on the success of our store location strategy and our ability to successfully open new stores as planned. Our sales are dependent in part on the location of our stores in shopping centers where we believe our consumers and potential consumers shop. In addition, our ability to grow our revenues has been substantially dependent on our ability to secure space for and open new stores in attractive locations. Centers where we currently operate existing stores or seek to open new stores may be adversely affected by, among other things, general economic downturns or those particularly affecting the commercial real estate industry, the closing of anchor stores, changes in tenant mix and changes in customer shopping preferences. To take advantage of consumer traffic and the shopping preferences of our consumers, we need to maintain and acquire stores in desirable locations where competition for suitable store locations is intense. A decline in the popularity of these shopping centers among our target consumers, or in availability or cost of space in these centers could adversely affect consumer traffic and reduce our sales and net earnings or increase our operating costs. Our ability to open and operate new stores depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, our ability to identify suitable store locations, negotiate acceptable 9 Table of Contents lease terms, and hire and train appropriate store personnel. In addition, our continued expansion into new regions of the country where we have not done business before may present new challenges in competition, distribution and merchandising as we enter these new markets. Our failure to successfully and timely execute our plans for opening new stores or the failure of these stores to perform up to our expectations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to attract, train, and retain skilled personnel could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Like most retailers, we experience significant associate turnover rates, particularly among store sales associates and managers. Our continued store growth will require the hiring and training of new associates. We must continually attract, hire and train new store associates to meet our staffing needs. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our store sales associates and managers would increase our recruiting and training costs as well as possibly cause a decrease in our store operating efficiency and productivity. We compete for qualified store associates, as well as, experienced management personnel with other companies in our industry or other industries, many of whom have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to retain our associates or attract, train, or retain other skilled personnel in the future, we may not be able to service our customers effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results, and financial condition. Our business operations subject us to legal compliance and litigation risks that could result in increased costs or liabilities, divert our management’s attention or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and litigation risk. Compliance risks and litigation claims have or may arise in the ordinary course of our business and may include, among other matters, employment issues, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented matters, tax, customer relations and personal injury claims. These matters frequently raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and could divert significant management time. In addition, governing laws, rules and regulations, and interpretations of existing laws are subject to change from time to time. Compliance and litigation matters could result in unexpected expenses and liability, as well as have an adverse effect on our operations and our reputation. If we fail to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights or avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others, our business, brand image, growth strategy, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We believe that our “Cato”, “Its Fashion” and “Its Fashion Metro” trademarks are integral to our store designs and our ability to successfully build consumer loyalty. We have registered these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) and have also registered, or applied for registration of, additional trademarks with the PTO that we believe are important to our business. We cannot assure that these registrations will prevent imitation of our trademarks, merchandising concepts, store designs or private label merchandise or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. Imitation of our names, concepts, store designs or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our image could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not try to block the manufacture or sale of our private label merchandise by claiming that our merchandise violates their trademarks or other proprietary rights. Although we cannot currently estimate the likelihood of success of any such lawsuit or ultimate resolution of such a conflict, such a controversy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may continue to experience market conditions that could adversely impact the valuation and liquidity of, and our ability to access, our short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. Our short-term investments and cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in federal, state and municipal debt securities. With the continuing downturn in the economy, we cannot be assured of our ability to 10 Table of Contents access these investments timely. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of the federally insured limits. In light of the continuing economic downturn and adverse conditions affecting the financial sector and stability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. Maintaining and improving our internal control over financial reporting and other requirements necessary to operate as a public company may strain our resources and any material failure in these controls may negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The requirements of these rules and regulations have, and may continue to, increase our compliance costs and place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. To satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting, which is a costly and time-consuming effort that must be re-evaluated frequently. We cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be adequate in the future. Any failure to maintain the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse material impact on our business, our financial condition and the price of our common stock. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock: Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business varies with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail apparel industry. As a result, our stores typically generate a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year compared to other quarters. Accordingly, our operating results for any one fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected from any future period, and such seasonal and quarterly fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of a principal shareholder may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the direction of the Company. As of March 30, 2010, John P. D. Cato, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially controlled approximately 39% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Cato may be able to control or significantly influence substantially all matters requiring approval by the shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other business combinations. Mr. Cato may have interests that differ from those of other shareholders, and may vote in a way with which other shareholders disagree or perceive as adverse to their interests. In addition, the concentration of voting power held by Mr. Cato could have the effect of preventing, discouraging or deferring a change in control of the Company, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Conditions in the stock market, generally or particularly relating to our Company or common stock, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make its trading price more volatile. The trading price of our common stock at times has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant volatility. A variety of factors may cause the price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, but not limited to: low trading volume; general market fluctuations resulting from factors not directly related to our operations or the inherent value of our common stock; announcements of developments related to our business; fluctuations in our reported operating results; general conditions in fashion and retail industry; conditions in the domestic or global economy or the domestic or global credit or capital markets; changes in financial estimates or the scope of coverage given to our Company by securities analysts; negative commentary regarding our Company 11 Table of Contents and corresponding short-selling market behavior; adverse customer relations developments; significant changes in our senior management team; and legal proceedings. Over the past several years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of equity securities of many retailers in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations that have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Such fluctuations and market volatility based on these or other factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: Not Applicable. 