Item 1A. Risk Factors: Factors that might cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements discussed elsewhere in this report, as well as affect our ability to achieve our financial and other goals, include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Relating To Our Business: Our ability to identify fashion trends as well as to react to changing customer demand in a timely manner. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women’s apparel. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Accordingly, any failure by us to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. If we miscalculate either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. Unusual weather or natural disasters that may impact sales and or operations. Extreme changes in weather patterns or other natural disasters influence customer trends and purchases. Likewise, weather patterns and natural disasters may negatively impact sales and/or operation of the Company. Merchandise supply and pricing and the interruption of and dependence on imports. The Company has generally been able to obtain sufficient quantities of fashionable merchandise at prices that allow the Company to profitably sell such merchandise. Any disruption in that supply and/or the pricing of such merchandise could negatively impact the Company’s operations and results. A significant amount of the goods sold by the Company are imported and changes to the flow of these goods for any reason could have an adverse impact on the Company. A decline in general economic conditions that may lead to reduced consumer demand for our apparel and accessories. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our apparel and accessories, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel and energy costs, salaries and wage rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the United States economy and an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending habits which may result in lower net sales. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A disruption or shut down of our distribution center. The distribution of our products is centralized in one distribution center in Charlotte, NC. The merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution center where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. If the distribution center was to shut down or loose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the distribution center. 7 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock: Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business varies with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail apparel industries. As a result, our stores typically generate a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in the first quarter of our fiscal year compared to other quarters. Such seasonal and quarterly fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of a principal shareholder may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the direction of the company. As of March 28, 2006, John P. D. Cato, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially controlled approximately 36% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Cato may be able to control or significantly influence substantially all matters requiring approval by the shareholders including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other business combinations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 