Item 1A. Risk Factors: An investment in our common stock involves numerous types of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the disclosures under “Forward Looking Information” above in evaluating our Company and any potential investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating To Our Business: If we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and customer demands in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could materially suffer. Customer tastes and fashion trends, particularly for women’s apparel, are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Accordingly, any failure by us to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our merchandise, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. If we miscalculate either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ tastes or purchasing habits, we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at below average markups over cost, or below cost, which would adversely affect our margins and results of operations. Unusual weather, natural disasters or similar events may adversely affect our sales or operations. Extreme changes in weather patterns or natural disasters can influence customer trends and shopping habits. For example, heavy rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions would adversely affect our business. Extreme weather patterns, natural disasters, power outages, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events could reduce customer traffic in our stores and likewise disrupt our ability to conduct operations, which could materially and adversely affect us. 7 Table of Contents Changes or other disruptions in the Company’s merchandise supply chain, including those affecting the pricing or importation of goods from the foreign markets that supply a significant amount of the Company’s merchandise, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s costs and results of operations. A significant amount of our merchandise is manufactured overseas, principally in the Far East. As a result, political instability or other events resulting in the disruption of trade from other countries or the imposition of additional regulations relating to or duties on imports could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are forced to source merchandise from other countries, those goods may be more expensive or of a different or inferior quality from the ones we now sell. If we were not able to timely or adequately replace the merchandise we currently source with merchandise produced elsewhere, our business could be adversely affected. Our costs are affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Because we purchase a significant portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers, our cost of these goods is affected by the fluctuation of the local currencies where these goods are produced against the dollar. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and, if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, decrease our gross margins and ultimately our earnings. Accordingly, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An actual or perceived decline in general economic conditions or outlook may reduce consumer demand for our apparel and accessories. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our apparel and accessories, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel and energy costs, salaries and wage rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence generally or consumer perceptions of economic conditions or trends. A general slowdown in the United States economy or a negative or uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending habits, which may result in lower net sales. Numerous events, whether or not related to actual economic conditions, such as downturns in the stock markets, acts of war or terrorism, political unrest or natural disasters, or similar events, may dampen consumer confidence, and accordingly lead to reduced consumer spending. A prolonged economic downturn or loss of consumer confidence could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption or shutdown of our centralized distribution center could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The distribution of our products is centralized in one distribution center in Charlotte, North Carolina. The merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution center where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. If the distribution center were to be shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be seriously disrupted. Such problems could occur as the result of any loss, destruction or impairment of our ability to use our distribution center, as well as any broader problem generally affecting the ability to ship goods into or out of the Charlotte metropolitan area. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the distribution center. A delay in the successful opening of the number of new stores we have planned could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to open and operate new stores depends on many factors including our ability to identify suitable store locations, negotiate acceptable lease terms, and hire and train appropriate store personnel. In addition, we continue to expand our operations to new regions of the country where we have not done business before. This expansion may present new challenges in competition, distribution and merchandising as we enter these new markets. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock: Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business varies with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail apparel industry. As a result, our stores typically generate a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in the first quarter of our fiscal year compared to other quarters. Such seasonal and quarterly fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of a principal shareholder may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the direction of the Company. As of March 27, 2007, John P. D. Cato, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially controlled approximately 37% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Cato may be able to control or significantly influence substantially all matters requiring approval by the shareholders including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other business combinations. Mr. Cato may have interests that differ from those of other shareholders, and may vote in a way with which other shareholders disagree or perceive as adverse to their interests. In addition, the concentration of voting power held by Mr. Cato could have the effect of preventing, discouraging or deferring a change in control of the Company, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 