ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights the material risks that we currently face. Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our securities. The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets may lead to increased non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision expense for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. Our non-performing assets were $1.28 billion at December 31, 2010, compared to $1.83 billion at December 31, 2009 and $1.17 billion at December 31, 2008. While recent economic data suggests that overall economic conditions are improving, if market conditions remain poor or further deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the fair value of our non-performing assets, the loss severities of loans in default, and the fair value of real estate owned. We also may realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. Poor economic conditions could result in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, such economic downturns could adversely affect the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of non-performing loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, as described under Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report and 45 Table of Contents under “Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Loan Losses” under “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, risk ratings, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Because the risk rating of the loans is inherently subjective and subject to changes in the borrower’s credit risk profile, evolving local market conditions and other factors, it can be difficult for us to predict the effects that those factors will have on the classifications assigned to the loan portfolio, and thus difficult to anticipate the velocity or volume of the migration of loans through the classification process and effect on the level of the allowance for loan losses. Accordingly, we monitor our credit quality and our reserve requirements and use that as a basis for capital planning and other purposes. See “Liquidity” and “Capital Resources” under “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. In light of current market conditions, we regularly reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was $703.5 million, or 3.26% of total loans at December 31, 2010 compared to $943.7 million, or 3.72% of total loans at December 31, 2009. We recorded a provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2010 of $1.13 billion compared to a $1.81 billion provision for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2009, both of which are significantly higher than historical levels. We also charged-off approximately $1.37 billion in loans, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $1.46 billion in loans, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2009, both of which were also significantly higher than in previous periods. Even though our credit trends showed improvement during 2010 compared to the prior two years, we expect that our levels of non-performing assets will remain at elevated levels in the foreseeable future as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. In addition, as we execute our 46 Table of Contents previously announced strategy to dispose of non-performing assets, we will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon disposition of assets are less than the recorded carrying value of such assets. Any additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision for loan losses or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. We will realize additional future losses if our levels of non-performing assets do not moderate and if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. In 2009, we announced a strategy to aggressively dispose of non-performing assets, and our refreshed strategic plan includes specific goals around, among other things, reduction of non-performing asset levels. During each of 2009 and 2010, we completed sales of approximately $1.2 billion of ORE, problem loans and potential problem loans, and we presently expect to continue our sales of distressed assets during 2011. The actual volume of future distressed asset sales could increase based on regulatory directives, the level of migration of performing loans to problem loan status, as well as opportunities to sell such assets, thus resulting in higher credit costs. Conversely, the continuing weakness in the residential and commercial real estate markets may negatively impact our ability to dispose of distressed assets, and may result in higher credit losses on sales of distressed assets. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated fair value, which considers management’s plans for disposition. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of assets are less than the recorded carrying value of such assets. If market conditions continue to decline, the magnitude of losses we may realize upon the disposition of non-performing assets may increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize the expected benefits from our 2011 – 2013 strategic plan. In the second half of 2010 Synovus announced an update of its three-year strategic plan to address these challenges and define strategies for expense reduction, streamlining of processes and long-term growth initiatives. The plan’s key strategic elements are focused on the following areas: • enhancing the sales and service approach for targeted customer segments; • aligning the cost structure with the current size of the organization; and • enhancing the customer experience by streamlining processes. The plan’s stated goals include significant declines in non-performing assets and potential problem loan levels, a further reduction in CRE loan concentration, and substantial growth in the C&I loan portfolio. The goals also include substantial cost reductions and capital ratios that exceed regulatory requirements and position Synovus favorably among its peers. 47 Table of Contents In January 2011, Synovus identified and announced efficiency and growth initiatives implementing the updated strategic plan, including the following: • Efficiency initiatives expected to generate an estimated $100 million in annual expense savings by the end of 2012, with approximately $75 million of these savings to be realized in 2011. The announced $100 million in annual expense savings will be achieved primarily through the reduction of approximately 850 positions during 2011 across our five-state footprint and through the closing of 39 branches. • Enhancements to Synovus’ Large Corporate Banking initiative, including the addition of syndicated credit program expertise and realignment of existing personnel, designed to utilize Synovus’ relationship-based delivery model approach to build relationships with larger commercial customers across Synovus’ five-state footprint and connect more commercial customers with Synovus’ full suite of specialized commercial banking products and services, including private banking, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance, and wealth management. • Streamlining of processes and enhanced product offerings and technology to improve the customer experience and reduce operating inefficiencies. The estimates and assumptions in the strategic plan and the related operating plan and restructuring of Synovus’ cost base may or may not prove to be accurate in some respects. In addition, Synovus is subject to various risks inherent in its business. These risks may cause the anticipated results from our strategic plan and cost-reduction initiatives not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or could result in some other unanticipated adverse impact. Furthermore, the implementation of these initiatives may have unintended impacts on Synovus’ ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the anticipated benefits from our strategic plan and cost reduction initiatives will be realized, and we may be unable to execute our business strategy and achieve our strategic and financial objectives, which may result in further regulatory scrutiny. If economic conditions worsen or regulatory capital rules are modified, we may be required to undertake additional strategic initiatives to improve our capital position. During 2009 and 2010, Synovus announced and executed a number of strategic capital initiatives to bolster our capital position against credit deterioration and to provide additional capital as Synovus pursued its aggressive asset disposition strategy. As of December 31, 2010, Synovus’ Tier 1 capital ratio was 12.79%, our Tier 1 Common Equity Ratio was 8.63%, and Synovus and Synovus Bank were considered “well capitalized” under current regulatory standards. See “Part I – Item 1 – Business, Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors – Prompt Corrective Action” of this Report for a discussion of the definition of “well capitalized.” This regulatory capital framework is expected to change in important respects as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and a separate, international regulatory capital initiative known 48 Table of Contents as “Basel III.” In December 2010, BCBS finalized new regulatory capital standards, known as Basel III, which are aimed at capital reform, seek to further strengthen financial institutions’ capital positions by mandating a higher minimum level of common equity to be held, along with a capital conservation buffer to withstand future periods of stress. At present, our Tier 1 common equity is in excess of the minimum common equity and additional conservation buffer stipulated by these newly proposed requirements. Regardless, complying with these new capital requirements will likely affect our operations, and the extent to which we will be affected will be known with more certainty once additional clarity is provided on the underlying details of these new requirements. These new requirements have been endorsed by the U.S. banking regulators, but have not yet been translated by the regulators into official regulation for U.S. financial institutions. It is anticipated that the regulators will adopt new regulatory capital requirements similar to those proposed by the BCBS and the new requirements are anticipated to be phased-in for U.S. financial institutions beginning in 2013. It is widely anticipated that the new capital requirements brought about by the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III for most bank and financial holding companies, as well as for most insured depository institutions, will increase, although the nature and amounts of the increase have not yet been specified. Synovus continually monitors its capital position particularly as capital is impacted by current economic conditions, actual performance against forecasted credit losses, peer capital levels, and regulatory capital standards and pressures, and engages in regular discussions with its regulators regarding capital at both Synovus and Synovus Bank. If economic conditions or other factors worsen to a materially greater degree than the assumptions underlying management’s current internal assessment of our capital position or if minimum regulatory capital requirements for us or our subsidiary bank increase as the result of legislative changes or informal or formal regulatory directives, then we would be required to pursue one or more additional capital improvement strategies, including, among others, balance sheet optimization strategies, asset sales, and/or the sale of securities to one or more third parties. Given the current economic and market conditions and our recent financial performance and related credit ratings, there can be no assurance that any such transactions will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. We also cannot predict the effect that these transactions would have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we issue additional equity securities in these transactions, including options, warrants, preferred stock or convertible securities, such newly issued securities could cause significant dilution to the holders of our common stock. Further adverse changes in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. During the second quarter of 2009, Moody’s Investors Service, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings downgraded our long term debt to below investment grade. On April 23, 2010, Moody’s Investor Service issued a further downgrade. The ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and Synovus Bank, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the continuing difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and 49 Table of Contents financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will not receive additional adverse changes in our ratings, which could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and the way in which we are perceived in the capital markets. We cannot predict whether existing customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be further affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution. We may be unable to access historical and alternative sources of liquidity, which could adversely affect our overall liquidity. Liquidity represents the extent to which we have readily available sources of funding needed to meet the needs of our depositors, borrowers and creditors, to support asset growth, to maintain reserve requirements, and to otherwise sustain our operations and the operations of our subsidiary bank. Synovus Bank primarily generates liquidity from earnings and deposits. In the current competitive environment, customer confidence is a critical element in growing and retaining deposits. In this regard, Synovus Bank’s asset quality could play a larger role in the stability of the deposit base. In the event asset quality declines significantly from its current level, Synovus Bank’s ability to grow and retain deposits could be diminished. As a result of the Charter Consolidation, we are unable to continue to offer our Synovus® Shared Deposit products. See “Deposits” and “Capital Resources and Liquidity” under “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. While we intend to continue aggressively pursuing retention of this deposit base, there can be no assurance that the remaining shared deposits will remain on deposit at Synovus Bank. The possibility of this deposit outflow could adversely impact Synovus Bank’s liquidity. We must maintain adequate liquidity at the holding company level for various operating needs, including the servicing of debt, the payment of general corporate expenses, and the payment of dividends to shareholders. In addition to our ordinary course liquidity needs, current conditions in the public markets for bank holding companies, dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock, and capital needs of our subsidiary bank have put additional pressure on our liquidity. The primary source of liquidity at the holding company level is dividends from Synovus Bank. Synovus has not had positive earnings since 2007. Synovus Bank is currently subject to a memorandum of understanding that prohibits it from paying any cash dividends to us without regulatory approval. In addition to dividends from Synovus Bank, we have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, including the capital markets, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If our access to these traditional and alternative sources of liquidity is diminished or only available on unfavorable terms and we continue to experience increased demand for liquidity at the holding company level then our overall liquidity and financial condition will be adversely affected. 50 Table of Contents Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the lower level of short-term interest rates and a decrease in total loans. Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, is a major component of our income. Our net interest income is our primary source of revenue from our operations. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 2008. Interest rates during 2009 and 2010 have remained at the range of 0% to 0.25% as set by the Federal Reserve during 2008. A significant portion of our loans, including residential construction and development loans and other commercial loans, bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates on a significant portion of these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, which may reduce our net interest income. In addition, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may offer more attractive interest rates to depositors, or we may have to pursue other sources of liquidity, such as wholesale funds. Our total loans decreased to $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2010 compared to $25.4 billion as of December 31, 2009. A decrease in loans outstanding and lower realized yields on investment securities reduced our net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2010 and could cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. This reduction in net interest income also may be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area. Any significant reduction in our net interest income could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect our capital resources, liquidity and financial results. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and brokered deposits. See “Liquidity” and “Capital Resources” under “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. We also have historically enjoyed a solid reputation in the capital markets and have been able to raise funds in the form of either short- or long-term borrowings or equity issuances. If, due to market disruptions, perceptions about our credit ratings or other factors, we are unable to access the capital markets, our capital resources and liquidity may be adversely affected. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial 51 Table of Contents results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, further reductions in our debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. Future losses will result in an additional valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. Recapture of the deferred tax asset balance (i.e., reversal of the valuation allowance) is subject to considerable judgment. During 2009, Synovus reached a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position. See Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. Under GAAP, cumulative losses in recent years are considered significant negative evidence which is difficult to overcome in assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset. As a result, beginning with the second quarter of 2009, Synovus no longer considers future taxable income in determining the realizability of its deferred tax assets. This required an increase in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of approximately $438.2 million in 2009 and $331.7 million in 2010, which adversely impacted Synovus’ results of operations for these periods. Synovus expects to reverse the majority of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets once it has demonstrated a sustainable return to profitability. However, the reversal of the valuation allowance is subject to considerable judgment. Additionally, even after the recovery of the deferred tax asset balance under GAAP, which would immediately benefit GAAP capital and the tangible common equity ratio, there will remain limitations on the ability to include the deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. See “Income Tax Expense” under “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operating Results and Financial Condition” of this Report. Issuances or sales of common stock or other equity securities could result in an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event an “ownership change” were to occur, our ability to fully utilize a significant portion of our U.S. federal and state tax net operating losses and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes could be impaired as a result of the operation of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our ability to use certain realized net operating losses and unrealized built-in losses to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). An ownership change under Section 382 generally occurs when a change in the aggregate percentage ownership of the stock of the corporation held by “five percent 52 Table of Contents shareholders” increases by more than fifty percentage points over a rolling three year period. A corporation experiencing an ownership change generally is subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-change losses and certain post-change recognized built-in losses equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately before the “ownership change,” multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-change losses and certain post-change recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Pre-change losses and certain post-change recognized built in losses in excess of the cap are effectively unable to be used to reduce future taxable income. In some circumstances, issuances or sales of our stock (including any common stock or other equity issuances or debt-for-equity exchanges and certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could result in an “ownership change” under Section 382. In April 2010, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which provides an economic disincentive for any one person or group acting in concert to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 5% or more of our stock. While adoption of the rights plan should reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our stock will result in an ownership change, there can be no assurance that the Rights Plan will be effective to deter a stockholder from increasing its ownership interests beyond the limits set by the Rights Plan or that an ownership change will not occur in the future. Furthermore, our ability to enter into future transactions may be impaired if such transactions result in an unanticipated “ownership change” under Section 382. If an “ownership change” under Section 382 were to occur, the value of our net operating losses and a portion of the net unrealized built-in losses will be impaired. Because a valuation allowance currently exists for substantially the full amount of our deferred tax assets, no additional charge to earnings would result. However, an “ownership change”, as defined above, could adversely impact our ability to recover the deferred tax asset in the future. We presently are subject to, and in the future may become subject to, additional supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, state banking regulators, the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if they determine that we have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, our bank regulators can require us to enter into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we could be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns, or to refrain from taking certain actions. 53 Table of Contents As a result of losses that we have incurred to date and our high level of credit losses and non-performing assets, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner pursuant to which we agreed to implement plans that are intended to, among other things, minimize credit losses and reduce the amount of our problem assets, limit and manage our concentrations in commercial real estate loans, improve our credit risk management and related policies and procedures, address liquidity management and current and future capital requirements, strengthen enterprise risk management practices, and provide for succession planning for key corporate and regional management positions and our board of directors. The memorandum of understanding also requires that we inform and consult with the Federal Reserve Board prior to declaring and paying any future dividends, and obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner prior to increasing the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock above $0.01 per share. In addition, Synovus Bank is presently subject to a memorandum of understanding with the Georgia Commissioner and the FDIC that is substantially similar in substance and scope to the holding company memorandum of understanding described above. The bank memorandum of understanding also requires that Synovus Bank obtain approval from the Georgia Commissioner and the FDIC prior to paying any cash dividends to Synovus and provides that, as a result of our Charter Consolidation, we will take all necessary steps to avoid customer confusion as a result of our proposed use of trade names at our various bank branches and to update our long-term strategic plan to reflect the charter consolidation and the various actions we have otherwise agreed to implement under the memorandum of understanding. Synovus Bank is presently also subject to a memorandum of understanding with the Georgia Commissioner and the FDIC relating to its subsidiary, Synovus Mortgage. In the Synovus Mortgage memorandum of understanding, Synovus Bank has agreed to implement plans that are intended to, among other things, ensure appropriate oversight of Synovus Mortgage and Synovus Mortgage’s compliance program relating to compliance and fair lending laws, rules and regulations. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our current supervisory agreements, or if we become subject to and are unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory actions or directives, supervisory agreements, or orders, then we could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including consent orders, prompt corrective action restrictions and/or other regulatory actions, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock. See “Part I – Item 1. Business – Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors” of this Report. 54 Table of Contents Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives applicable to financial institutions in general and TARP recipients in particular could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees and pursue business opportunities and could put us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors and damage our reputation if these competitors repay their TARP funds before us. Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees from financial institutions and others. Until we repay the TARP funds, we are subject to additional, and possibly changing, regulatory scrutiny and restrictions regarding the compensation of certain executives and associates as established under TARP guidelines. The increased scrutiny and restrictions related to our compensation practices may adversely impact our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key employees, which in turn may impact our ability to pursue business opportunities and could otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. See “Item 1—Business—“Actions by Federal and State Regulators” and “—Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” in this Report. In addition to the guidelines on incentive and senior officer compensation under TARP, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the implementation of a variety of corporate governance and compensation practices applicable to all public companies, including Synovus, which may impact certain of Synovus’ executive officers and employees. These provisions include, but are not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, provide shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, to consider the independence of compensation advisors and new executive compensation disclosure requirements. Such provisions with respect to compensation, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on the ability of Synovus to attract and retain skilled personnel. Further, in June, 2010, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the FDIC jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. This regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. These restrictions may put us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors that have repaid all TARP funds before us, or who did not receive TARP funds, and with non-financial institutions in terms of attracting retaining senior level employees. Furthermore, to the extent that our competitors repay their TARP funds before us, our reputation and the public perception of our financial condition may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our stock price. 55 Table of Contents As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we may become subject to additional regulation, and we cannot predict the cost or effects of compliance at this time. In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program administered under the TARP, we may face additional regulations and/or reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, the following: • Section 5.3 of the standardized Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the Treasury provides, in part, that the Treasury “may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes.” This provision could give Congress the ability to impose “after-the-fact” terms and conditions on participants in the Capital Purchase Program. As a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, we would be subject to any such retroactive legislation. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. • Participation in the Capital Purchase Program will limit our ability to repurchase our common stock or to increase the dividend on our common stock above $0.06 per share, or to repurchase, our common stock without the consent of the Treasury until the earlier of December 19, 2011 or until the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole, or until the Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party. • The FDIC has requested that all state-chartered banks monitor and report how they have spent funds received from the Treasury in connection with TARP funds through 2012. As a result, we may face increased regulation, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We cannot predict the effect that participating in these programs may have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future or what additional regulations and/or requirements we may become subject to as a result of our participation in these programs. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. In 2009 and 2010, many emergency government programs enacted in 2008 in response to the financial crisis and the recession slowed or wound down, and global regulatory and legislative focus has generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Emergency programs that are winding down include TARP, which Treasury extended until October 3, 2010 in order to retain an adequate financial stability reserve if financial conditions worsen and threaten the economy. Also, the Debt Guarantee Program expired on October 31, 2009, with the guarantee period on such debt expiring on December 30, 2012. The Transaction Account Guarantee portion of the program, which guarantees non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts on an unlimited basis was extended until December 31, 2010 and recent amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act provide full deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts and 56 Table of Contents Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts or IOLTAs beginning December 31, 2010, for a two-year period. In addition, the Federal Reserve has begun to sell off its portfolio of mortgage-backed securities, which it previously purchased in order to stabilize the residential mortgage market. We cannot predict the effect that the wind-down of these various governmental programs will have on current financial market conditions, or on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which will substantially change the legal and regulatory framework under which we operate over the next several years. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, mortgage lending practices, registration of investment advisors and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. Among the provisions that may affect the operations of the Bank or the Company are the following: • Creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with centralized authority for consumer protection in the banking industry. • New limitations on federal preemption. • Application of new regulatory capital requirements, including changes to leverage and risk-based capital standards and changes to the components of permissible tiered capital. • Requirement that the company and its subsidiary bank be well capitalized and well managed in order to engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. • Changes to the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums. • Making permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance and provide unlimited insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing demand transaction accounts through 2012. • Repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, effective July 21, 2011, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. • Restrictions on compensation, including a prohibition on incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. Some of these and other major changes could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Many of these provisions became effective upon enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, while others are subject to further study, rule making, and the discretion of regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any implementing regulations will have on Synovus’ businesses 57 Table of Contents or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect Synovus’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain other reform proposals under consideration, including new proposed regulatory capital requirements proposed by the BCBS under Basel III, could result in Synovus becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. See “Part I – Item 1. Business – Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors”. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FDIC to amend its regulations to re-define the method of calculation of an insured depository institution’s insurance fund assessment. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the assessment base to be an amount equal to the average consolidated total assets of the insured depository institution during the assessment period, minus the sum of the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period and an amount the FDIC determines is necessary to establish assessments consistent with the risk-based assessment system found in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The FDIC has issued final rules outlining this new insurance assessment methodology, which will impact the amount of Synovus Bank’s insurance assessment. In addition, the FDIC may make additional changes to the way in which it calculates insurance premiums. For example, the FDIC has proposed using executive compensation as a factor in assessing the premiums paid by insured depository institutions to the Deposit Insurance Fund. We cannot predict the timing of any future changes, and if made, the effect that these changes could have on our insurance assessment. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even 58 Table of Contents rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in the past and could do so in the future and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are named in a several class action lawsuits and several related suits and inquiries, and if we are unable to resolve these matters favorably, then our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. On July 7, 2009, the City of Pompano Beach General Employees’ Retirement System filed suit in the United States District Court, Northern District of Georgia (the “Securities Class Action”) against us and certain current and former executive officers alleging, among other things, that we and the named defendants misrepresented or failed to disclose material facts, including purported exposure to our Sea Island lending relationship and the impact of real estate values as a threat to our credit, capital position, and business, and failed to adequately and timely record losses for impaired loans. The plaintiffs in the suit claim that the alleged misrepresentations or omissions artificially inflated our stock price in violation of the federal securities laws and seek damages in an unspecified amount. On November 4, 2009, a shareholder filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of Synovus in the United States District Court, Northern District of Georgia (the “Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit”), against certain current and/or former directors and executive officers of the Company. The Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit asserts that the individual defendants violated their fiduciary duties based upon substantially the same facts as alleged in the Securities Class Action described above. The plaintiff is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount and equitable and/or injunctive relief. On December 21, 2009, a shareholder filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of Synovus in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia (the “State Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit”), against certain current and/or former directors and executive officers of the Company. The State Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit asserts that the individual defendants violated their fiduciary duties based upon substantially the same facts as alleged in the Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit described above. The plaintiff is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount and equitable and/or injunctive relief. Synovus received a letter from the SEC, Atlanta regional office, dated December 15, 2009, informing Synovus that it is conducting an informal inquiry “to determine whether any person or entity has violated the federal securities laws.” The SEC has not asserted that Synovus or any person or entity has committed any securities violations. The Company intends to cooperate fully with the SEC’s informal inquiry. In the wake of the ongoing financial credit crisis that began in 2007, Synovus, like many other financial institutions, has become the target of numerous legal actions and other 59 Table of Contents proceedings asserting claims for damages and related relief for losses resulting from this crisis. These actions include claims and counterclaims asserted by individual borrowers related to their loans and allegations of violations of state and federal laws and regulations relating to banking practices, including several purported putative class action matters. See “Part II – Item 3. Legal Proceeding” in this Report. We cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters or reasonably determine the probability of a material adverse result or reasonably estimate the range of potential exposure, if any, that these matters might have on us, our business, our financial condition, our cash flows, or our results of operations, although such effects could be materially adverse. In addition, in the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management’s attention and other resources away from our business. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Synovus Mortgage sells substantially all of the mortgage loans that it originates. While the loans are sold without recourse, the purchase agreements require Synovus Mortgage to make certain representations and warranties regarding the existence and sufficiency of file documentation and the absence of fraud by borrowers or other third parties such as appraisers in connection with obtaining the loan. If it is determined that the loans sold were in breach of these representations or warranties, Synovus Mortgage has obligations to either repurchase the loan for the unpaid principal balance and related investor fees or make the purchaser whole for any economic losses associated with the loan. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions designed to address perceived deficiencies in the residential mortgage loan origination and underwriting process, in part by creating new documentation requirements and underwriting criteria and increasing the potential liability of Synovus and Synovus Mortgage to their customers if Synovus and Synovus Mortgage fail to take steps to ensure and document that each borrower has the capacity and the ability to repay their loans. To date, repurchase activity pursuant to the terms of these representations and warranties has been minimal and has primarily been associated with the periods from 2005 through 2008. From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2010, Synovus Mortgage originated and sold approximately $5.5 billion of first lien GSE eligible mortgage loans and approximately $2.9 billion of first and second lien non-GSE eligible mortgage loans. While losses to date arising from such repurchases have been inconsequential, we cannot assure you that, in the current environment, Synovus Mortgage will not be required to repurchase substantially greater amounts of such mortgage loans or make related indemnity payments to the purchasers of our mortgage loans. If the level of repurchase and indemnity demands become significant, Synovus Mortgage is alleged to be in non-compliance with the regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 60 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 