Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights some of the specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight some of the key factors, please be aware that these risks are not the only risks we face; other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets may lead to increased non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision expense for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. Our non-performing assets were $1.83 billion at December 31, 2009, compared to $1.17 billion at December 31, 2008. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the fair value of our non-performing assets, the loss severities of loans in default, and the fair value of real estate owned. We also may realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. Poor economic conditions could result in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, such economic downturns could adversely affect the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of non-performing loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay us is preceded generally by missed payments. In some instances, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, although this is not generally the case. Customers who declare bankruptcy frequently do not repay their loans. Where our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral when and if customers default on their loans. The value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. 19 Table of Contents Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses and may increase our cost of funds. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, all as described under Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-20 and F-21 of the Financial Appendix and under “Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Loan Losses” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” Section on pages F-66 through F-68 of the Financial Appendix. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. We also apply a comprehensive loan classification methodology across each of our 30 bank subsidiaries. Using this methodology, each of our subsidiary banks makes objective and subjective determinations in concluding what they believe to be the appropriate classification of each of their outstanding loans. We carefully monitor, on a bank-by-bank basis, the volume of loans that migrate through each of the various levels of classification. During each quarter, we review a pool of what we believe to be a representative sample of loans from each of our subsidiary banks in an effort to monitor the level of reserves that are maintained in respect of those loans, and to work towards a uniform application of allowance principles across our enterprise. Because the initial classification of the loans is inherently subjective and subject to evolving local market conditions and other changing factors, it can be difficult for us to predict the effects that those factors will have on the classifications assigned to the loan portfolio of any of our banks, and thus difficult to anticipate the velocity or volume of the migration of loans through the classification process and effect on the level of the allowance for loan losses. Accordingly, we monitor our credit quality and our reserves on a consolidated basis, and use that as a basis for capital planning and other purposes. See “Liquidity” and “Capital Resources” under the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” Section on pages F-104 through F-108 of the Financial Appendix. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. In light of current market conditions, we regularly reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses increased from 2.14% of total loans at December 31, 2008 to 3.72% at December 31, 2009. We made a provision for loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2009 of approximately $1.81 billion, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. We also charged-off approximately $1.46 billion in loans, net of recoveries, during the year ended December 31, 2009, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. We will likely experience additional classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision for loan losses or the continuation of aggressive charge-off policies or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of assets are less than the carrying value of such assets. We have announced a strategy to aggressively dispose of non-performing assets. For a significant portion of our non-performing assets, we have determined the asset categories to be disposed of but have not identified specific assets within those categories. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated fair value, which considers management’s plans for 20 Table of Contents disposition. We may also sell assets in the future that are not currently identified as non-performing assets. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of assets are less than the recorded carrying value of such assets. Furthermore, if market conditions continue to decline the magnitude of losses we may realize upon the disposition of assets may increase, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent turmoil in the real estate markets and the tightening of credit have adversely affected the financial services industry and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent turmoil in the housing and real estate markets, including falling real estate prices, increasing foreclosures, and rising unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of loans secured by real estate and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by banks and other financial institutions. These write-downs caused many banks and financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with other financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing credit to borrowers, including other financial institutions, which, in turn, led to the global credit crisis. This market turmoil and credit crisis have resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The degree and timing of economic recovery remain uncertain. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to result in credit losses and write-downs in the future. We may be unable to successfully implement the Charter Consolidation and we may not realize the expected benefits from the Charter Consolidation. In January 2010, we announced our intention to change our legal structure by consolidating our 30 separately chartered banks into a single bank subsidiary (the “Charter Consolidation”). We believe that the Charter Consolidation will result in a number of benefits, including simplified regulatory oversight, improved capital efficiency and enhanced risk management. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully execute on all or any components of the Charter Consolidation or realize any of the expected benefits of the Charter Consolidation. The Charter Consolidation is subject to federal and state regulatory approval and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such approval. Even if approved, federal and state regulatory agencies may impose conditions on our ability to implement the Charter Consolidation, including imposing operational restrictions on us or our subsidiary banks or requiring us to raise additional capital, which could prevent the successful implementation of, or reduce the benefits we realize from, the Charter Consolidation. In addition, we may be unable to successfully consolidate all of the regulatory initiatives our subsidiary banks are currently subject to into a global regulatory order applicable to the resulting bank(s) in the Charter Consolidation and such resulting bank(s) may be required to comply with all regulatory initiatives to which our subsidiary banks are currently subject. If we are not able to successfully complete the Charter Consolidation, we could be adversely impacted by negative perceptions regarding our inability to move to a more centralized structure. Even if we are successful in implementing the Charter Consolidation, we may not realize the expected benefits from the Charter Consolidation. Furthermore, the Charter Consolidation could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations if our customers and employees perceive the Charter Consolidation as a loss of our traditional community banking culture, which may result in higher than expected loss of deposits (particularly with respect to our Synovus® Shared Deposit products), disruption of our business and adverse affects on our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and employees. We rely on the current officers of our subsidiary banks to manage our subsidiary banks in their respective market areas and we could be materially adversely affected if these officers depart as a result of the Charter Consolidation. Difficulty in consolidating our subsidiary banks could lead to higher than expected integration costs and could delay the timing of the Charter Consolidation. If economic conditions worsen or regulatory capital rules are modified, we may be required to undertake one or more strategic initiatives to improve our capital position. During 2009, Synovus announced and executed a number of strategic capital initiatives to bolster our capital position against credit deterioration and to provide additional capital as Synovus pursued its aggressive asset disposition strategy. As of December 31, 2009, Synovus’ Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.16%, and Synovus and each of its banking subsidiaries is considered “well capitalized” under current regulatory standards. See “Item 1 – Business, Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors – Prompt Corrective Action” on pages 11 and 12 of this Report for a discussion of the definition of “well capitalized.” Our management presently believes that, based upon an internal analysis of our capital position, we possess sufficient capital to continue to satisfy current regulatory standards. Synovus continues to monitor economic conditions, actual performance against forecasted credit losses, peer capital levels, and regulatory capital standards and pressures. If economic conditions or other factors worsen to a greater degree than the assumptions underlying management’s internal assessment of 21 Table of Contents our capital position or if minimum regulatory capital requirements for us or our subsidiary banks increase as the result of formal regulatory directives, then we may be required to pursue one or more additional capital improvement strategies, including, among others, balance sheet optimization strategies, asset sales, and/or the sale of securities to one or more third parties. In light of these factors, as well as continuing discussions with regulators, Synovus is identifying, considering, and pursuing additional capital management strategies to bolster its capital position. However, given the current economic and market conditions and our recent financial performance and related credit ratings, there can be no assurance that any such strategic transactions will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that we would be able to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategic transactions. The regulators of our individual banks may require our individual banks to maintain a higher level of capital than we currently anticipate, which could adversely affect our liquidity at the holding company and require us to raise additional capital. While we consider our capital position on a consolidated basis, the regulators of each of our individual banks may require that those individual banks maintain a higher level of capital than we currently anticipate, which would require that we maintain a consolidated capital position that is well beyond what we presently anticipate and could be in excess of the levels of capital used in the assumptions underlying our internal capital analysis. As of December 31, 2009, several of our subsidiary banks were required to maintain regulatory capital levels in excess of minimum well-capitalized requirements primarily as a result of non-performing assets. Further, as a holding company with obligations and expenses separate from our bank subsidiaries, and because many of our banks will be unable to make dividend payments to us, we must maintain a level of liquidity at our holding company that is sufficient to address those obligations and expenses. The maintenance of adequate liquidity at our holding company may limit our ability to make further capital investments in our bank subsidiaries, which could adversely impact us and require us to raise additional capital. Even if we are successful in implementing the Charter Consolidation, there can be no guarantee that the resulting bank(s) would not be required by the regulators to have a higher level of capital than we may anticipate. Issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the public markets and other capital management or business strategies that we may pursue could depress the market price of our common stock and result in the dilution of our existing shareholders. Synovus will continue to identify, consider and pursue additional capital management strategies in the future to bolster its capital position. Future issuances of our equity securities, including common stock, in any transaction that we may pursue may dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue equity securities (including convertible securities, preferred securities, and options and warrants on our common or preferred stock) in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratios of debt to equity, to address regulatory capital concerns, to restructure currently outstanding debt or equity securities or to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants. We may issue equity securities in transactions that generate cash proceeds, transactions that free up regulatory capital but do not immediately generate or preserve substantial amounts of cash, and transactions that generate regulatory or balance sheet capital only and do not generate or preserve cash. We cannot predict the effect that these transactions would have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we issue additional equity securities, including options, warrants, preferred stock or convertible securities, such newly issued securities could cause significant dilution to the holders of our common stock. Further adverse changes in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. During the second quarter of 2009, Moody’s Investors Service, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings downgraded our long term debt to below investment grade. The ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and certain of our subsidiary banks, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the continuing difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will not receive additional adverse changes in our ratings, which could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and the way in which we are perceived in the capital markets. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the lower level of short-term interest rates, recent developments in the credit and real estate markets and competition in our primary market area. Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, is a major component of our income. Our net interest income is our primary source of funding for our operations, including extending credit and reserving for loan losses. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 22 Table of Contents 2008. Interest rates during 2009 have remained at the range of 0% to 0.25% as set by the Federal Reserve during 2008. A significant portion of our loans, including residential construction and development loans and other commercial loans, bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates on a significant portion of these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, which may reduce our net interest income. In addition, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may offer more attractive interest rates to depositors, and we may increasingly rely upon out-of-market or brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. A decrease in loans outstanding, increased non-performing loans and the decrease in interest rates reduced our net interest income during the year ended December 31, 2009 and could cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. This reduction in net interest income also may be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area. Any significant reduction in our net interest income could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Diminished access to alternative sources of liquidity could adversely affect our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits could exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. In addition, our planned Charter Consolidation may result in higher than expected loss of deposits (particularly with respect to our Synovus® Shared Deposit products). If our access to these sources of liquidity is diminished, or only available on unfavorable terms, or if we experience higher than expected deposit losses following our planned Charter Consolidation, then our income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity likely would be adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and may result in disruptions in our ability to access sources of funds, which may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and brokered deposits. See “Liquidity” and “Capital Resources” under the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” Section on pages F-104 through F-108 of the Financial Appendix. We also have historically enjoyed a solid reputation in the capital markets and have been able to raise funds in the form of either short- or long-term borrowings or equity issuances. Recently, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access certain of our sources of funding may be disrupted. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, further reductions in our debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to receive dividends from our subsidiary banks, and we may be required to contribute capital to those banks, which could adversely affect our liquidity and cause us to raise capital on terms that are unfavorable to us. Our primary source of liquidity is dividends from our subsidiary banks, which are governed by certain rules and regulations of various state and federal banking regulatory agencies. Dividends from our subsidiaries in 2009 were significantly lower than those received in previous years and we expect dividends from our subsidiaries to continue to be lower than previous years in 2010. This may be the result of those banks’ financial condition and/or regulatory limitations they may face. During 2009, we have been required to provide capital to certain subsidiaries and expect to continue to do so in 2010. There is an increasing possibility that additional Synovus subsidiary banks may be directed by their regulators to increase their capital levels as a result of weakened financial condition, which may require that we contribute additional capital to these banks at a time when Synovus is not receiving a meaningful amount of dividend payments from its banks to offset those capital infusions. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-26 through F-27 of the Financial Appendix. This could require that Synovus maintain a consolidated capital position that is beyond what we presently anticipate and in excess of the levels of capital used in the assumptions underlying our internal capital analysis. Further, as a holding company with obligations and expenses separate from our bank subsidiaries, and because many of our banks will be unable to make dividend payments to us, we must maintain a level of liquidity at our holding company that is sufficient to address those obligations and expenses. The maintenance of adequate liquidity at our holding company could limit our ability to make further capital investments in our bank subsidiaries, and which could adversely impact us. Even if we are successful in implementing the Charter Consolidation, we may not receive dividends from the resulting bank(s) in 2010 and may be required to provide additional capital to the resulting bank(s). In addition, current market conditions and required dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock likely will continue to put additional pressure on our liquidity position. If these trends continue, we may be forced to raise additional capital. Given the weakened economy, current market conditions and our recent financial performance and related credit rating downgrades, we may be unable to obtain new borrowings or issue equity on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of a potential equity offering would result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Also, we may be unable to raise the amount of capital that we desire due to the limited number of shares of our common stock that currently remain authorized and available for issuances under our organizational documents. Our access to funds from our subsidiaries may become limited, thereby restricting our ability to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments on our capital stock. Synovus is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We therefore depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Our banking subsidiaries and certain other of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to us, and certain of our subsidiaries also are, or may become, subject to regulatory orders that would further limit their ability to pay dividends to us. See “—We are presently subject to, and in the future may become subject to additional, supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock.” Regulations on bank and financial holding companies may also restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. We may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock, holders of our common stock are not legally entitled to receive dividends. The reduction or elimination of dividends paid on our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the Federal Reserve could decide at any time that paying any common stock dividends could be an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Any of these decisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For a discussion of current regulatory limits on our ability to pay dividends above $0.01 per common share, see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors — Dividends” and “— Risk Factors — We are presently subject to, and in the future may become subject to additional, supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock” in this Report and the “Dividends” section under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition” on pages F-108 through F-109 of the Financial Appendix. 24 Table of Contents As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the fair value of non-performing assets or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; or • an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. Any such increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans. Future losses will result in an additional valuation allowance to our deferred tax assets and impair our ability to recover our deferred tax asset during 2010. During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, Synovus reached a three-year pre-tax loss position. See Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-51 through F-54 of the Financial Appendix. Under GAAP, a cumulative loss position is considered significant negative evidence which made it very difficult for the company to rely on future earnings as a reliable source of future taxable income to realize deferred tax assets. Synovus incurred additional pre-tax losses in the quarters ended September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009. Accordingly, Synovus was required to increase the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets by approximately $173 million, $155 million and $110 million during the quarters ended June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, which adversely impacted Synovus’ results of operations for these periods. Under GAAP, once a company that has recorded a valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset returns to profitability, it is possible to reduce or reverse the valuation allowance with a corresponding tax benefit recognized through current earnings. However, reductions in the valuation allowance are subject to considerable judgment and uncertainty. While Synovus expects to reverse the majority of the valuation allowance once it has demonstrated a consistent return to profitability, realizing additional operating losses will increase the valuation allowance. The internal capital analysis used by Synovus management assumes that Synovus will be able to recover the majority of the recorded valuation allowance in 2010. There can be not assurance that Synovus will be able to fully reverse the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets during 2010, which may negatively impact Synovus’ capital ratios and require Synovus to raise additional capital. Issuances or sales of common stock or other equity securities could result in an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event an “ownership change” were to occur, our ability to fully utilize a significant portion of our U.S. federal and state tax net operating losses could be impaired, and we could lose certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes as a result of the operation of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our ability to use certain realized net operating losses and unrealized built-in losses to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). An ownership change under Section 382 generally occurs when a change in the aggregate percentage ownership of the stock of the corporation held by “five percent shareholders” increases by more than fifty percentage points over a rolling three year period ending on the transaction date. A corporation experiencing an ownership change generally is subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-change losses and certain recognized built-in losses equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately before the “ownership change,” multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-change losses and certain post-change recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Pre-change losses and certain recognized built in losses in excess of the cap are effectively unable to be used to reduce future taxable income. In some circumstances, issuances or sales of our stock (including any common stock issuances or debt-for-equity exchanges and certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could result in an “ownership change” under Section 382. 25 Table of Contents While Synovus may, under certain circumstances, be able to utilize certain tax strategies (including a “tax preservation” rights plan) to protect against an “ownership change”, if an “ownership change” under Section 382 were to occur, the value of our net operating losses and a portion of the net unrealized built-in losses will be impaired. Because a valuation allowance currently exists for substantially the full amount of our deferred tax assets, no additional charge to earnings would result. However, an “ownership change”, as defined above, could adversely impact our ability to recognize Tier 1 capital from the potential future release of our valuation allowance. We face intense competition from other financial service providers. We operate in a highly competitive environment in respect of the products and services we offer and the markets in which we serve. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or additional interest income to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge by creating a “financial holding company,” which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, a number of foreign banks have acquired financial services companies in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. We expect the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. Our financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to our reputation. Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, existing litigation, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. 26 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing market share depends on the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by users. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. We provide these products and services to our consumer and corporate customers through a decentralized network of banks and other of our businesses that operate autonomously within their respective communities. While our operating model provides us with a competitive advantage in maintaining a community focus and in providing customer service, our model is, in many respects, less efficient to operate. Moreover, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which is difficult to do across a network like ours. This can reduce our overall net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to generate significant levels of new business in our existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of products and services or developing and maintaining loyal customers and/or breaking into targeted markets. The trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws of the federal government and its agencies, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board, significantly affect our earnings. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. For example, decreases in interest rates could reduce our net interest income or cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. Alternatively, higher interest rates could cause our funding costs to increase more than our asset yields. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies; changes in laws and regulations or failures to comply with such laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our financial results. Synovus and our subsidiary banks, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, but not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, including currently proposed regulation in both the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Additionally, proposed legislation affecting the regulation of banking institutions may be enacted during 2010 and beyond, but the specific terms of such legislation are difficult to foresee. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current financial and economic environment, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could be expensive for us to address and/or could result in our changing the way that we do business due to increased regulatory compliance burdens. Furthermore, various federal and state bodies regulate and supervise our nonbank subsidiaries, including our brokerage, investment advisory, insurance agency and processing operations. These include, but are not limited to, the SEC, FINRA, federal and state banking regulators and various state regulators of insurance and brokerage activities. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which Synovus or its subsidiaries must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, consent orders, civil money penalties, termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital level of the institution. In particular, institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may also face capital directives or prompt corrective action. Enforcement actions may require certain corrective steps, impose limits on activities, prescribe lending parameters and require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The imposition of regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties, may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and damage to our reputation, and loss of our financial services holding company status. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract 27 Table of Contents management’s attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to raise capital. We presently are subject to, and in the future may become subject to, additional supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, various state regulators (for state chartered banks), the Federal Reserve (for bank holding companies), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (for national banks) and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if they determine that we have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, our bank regulators can require us to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. As a result of losses that we have incurred to date and our high level of classified assets, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the Banking Commissioner of the State of Georgia, or the “Georgia Commissioner,” pursuant to which we agreed to implement plans that are intended to, among other things, minimize credit losses and reduce the amount of our non-performing loans, limit and manage our concentrations in commercial loans, improve our credit risk management and related policies and procedures, address liquidity management and current and future capital requirements, strengthen enterprise risk management practices, and provide for succession planning for key corporate and regional management positions. The memorandum of understanding also requires that we obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the Georgia Commissioner prior to increasing the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.01 per share. In addition, many of our subsidiary banks presently are subject to memoranda of understanding and/or similar supervisory actions with the FDIC and/or their applicable state bank regulatory authorities and/or resolutions adopted by those banks’ boards of directors at the direction of their appropriate bank regulator. These supervisory actions are similar in substance and scope to the memorandum of understanding described above. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-26 through F-27 of the Financial Appendix. In the future, all of our subsidiary banks may become subject to similar and/or heightened supervisory actions and enhanced regulation. Even if we are successful in implementing the Charter Consolidation, the resulting bank(s) may be required to comply with all memoranda of understanding and similar supervisory actions our subsidiary banks are currently subject to or may become subject to. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our current regulatory orders, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory orders to which we may become subject, then we could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including consent orders, prompt corrective action restrictions and/or other regulatory enforcement actions, including prohibitions on the payment of common stock dividends. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. See “Item 1 — Business-Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” on pages 8 through 18 of this Report. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives applicable to TARP recipients could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees and pursue business opportunities and put us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors. Until we repay the TARP funds, we are subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and restrictions regarding the compensation of certain executives and associates as established under TARP guidelines. The increased scrutiny and restrictions related to our compensation practices may adversely impact our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key employees, which in turn may impact our ability to pursue business opportunities and could otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. These restrictions may put us at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors that have repaid all TARP funds or did not receive TARP funds and may prove costly for us to comply with. See “Item 1 — Business-Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” on pages 8 through 18 of this Report. 28 Table of Contents As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, we may become subject to additional regulation, and we cannot predict the cost or effects of compliance at this time. In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program administered under the TARP, we may face additional regulations and/or reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, the following: • Section 5.3 of the standardized Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the Treasury provides, in part, that the Treasury “may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes.” This provision could give Congress the ability to impose “after-the-fact” terms and conditions on participants in the Capital Purchase Program. As a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, we would be subject to any such retroactive legislation. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. • Participation in the Capital Purchase Program will limit our ability to repurchase our common stock or to increase the dividend on our common stock above $0.06 per share, or to repurchase, our common stock without the consent of the Treasury until the earlier of December 19, 2011 or until the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole, or until the Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party. • The FDIC has requested that all state-chartered banks monitor and report how they have spent funds received from the Treasury in connection with TARP funds. • Our continued participation in the Transaction Account Guarantee portion of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. As a result, we may face increased regulation, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We cannot predict the effect that participating in these programs may have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future or what additional regulations and/or requirements we may become subject to as a result of our participation in these programs. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. In 2009, many emergency government programs enacted in 2008 in response to the financial crisis and the recession slowed or wound down, and global regulatory and legislative focus has generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Legislators and regulators in the United States are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. Some of these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Certain reform proposals under consideration could result in Synovus becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. In addition, we anticipate the enactment of certain reform proposals under consideration that would introduce stricter substantive standards, oversight and enforcement of rules governing consumer financial products and services, with particular emphasis on retail extensions of credit and other consumer-directed financial products or services. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The FDIC has recently been considering different methodologies by which it may increase premium amounts, because the costs associated with bank resolutions or failures have substantially depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. In November 2009, the FDIC voted to require insured depository institutions to prepay slightly over three years of estimated insurance assessments. Additionally, the FDIC has proposed using executive compensation as a factor in assessing the premiums paid by insured depository institutions to the Deposit Insurance Fund. 29 Table of Contents We rely on our systems and employees, and any failures or departures could materially adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees departs or causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business also could be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is a risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs could adversely affect our financial results. Our personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. We are aggressively managing our expenses in the current economic environment, but as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. Increases in the costs of services and products provided to us by third parties could adversely affect our financial results. The costs of services and products provided to us by third parties could increase in the future, whether as a result of our financial condition, credit ratings, the way we are perceived by such parties, the economy or otherwise. Such increases could have an adverse affect on our financial results. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. We are named in a purported federal securities class action lawsuit and several related suits and inquiries, and if we are unable to resolve these matters favorably, then our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. On July 7, 2009, the City of Pompano Beach General Employees’ Retirement System filed suit in the United States District Court, Northern District of Georgia (the “Securities Class Action”) against us and certain current and former executive officers alleging, among other things, that we and the named defendants misrepresented or failed to disclose material facts, including purported exposure to our Sea Island lending relationship and the impact of real estate values as a threat to our credit, capital position, and business, and failed to adequately and timely record losses for impaired loans. The plaintiffs in the suit claim that the alleged misrepresentations or omissions artificially inflated our stock price in violation of the federal securities laws and seek damages in an unspecified amount. On November 4, 2009, a shareholder filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of Synovus in the United States District Court, Northern District of Georgia (the “Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit”), against certain current and/or former directors and executive officers of the Company. The Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit asserts that the individual defendants violated their fiduciary duties based upon substantially the same facts as alleged in the Securities Class Action described above. The plaintiff is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount and equitable and/or injunctive relief. On December 21, 2009, a shareholder filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of Synovus in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia (the “State Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit”), against certain current and/or former directors and executive officers of the Company. The State Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit asserts that the individual defendants violated their fiduciary duties based upon substantially the same facts as alleged in the Federal Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit described above. The plaintiff is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount and equitable and/or injunctive relief. Synovus received a letter from the SEC, Atlanta regional office, dated December 15, 2009, informing Synovus that it is conducting an informal inquiry “to determine whether any person or entity has violated the federal securities laws.” The SEC has not asserted that Synovus or any person or entity has committed any securities violations. The Company intends to cooperate fully with the SEC’s informal inquiry. We cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters or reasonably determine the probability of a material adverse result or reasonably estimate range of potential exposure, if any, that these matters might have on us, our business, our financial condition or our results of operations, although such effects could be materially adverse. In addition, in the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management’s attention and other resources away from our business. Our stock price has been and is likely to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. The stock market in general, and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, the value of your investment may decline. Our articles of incorporation, as well as certain banking laws and regulations, may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and certain banking laws and regulations, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine transactions, including, for example, funding transactions, could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in the past and could do so in the future and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited number of authorized shares of our common stock available for future issuance. Under our articles of incorporation, as amended, we have 600 million shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, authorized for issuance. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 490 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding, net of treasury shares, and had reserved approximately 43.6 million shares for future issuance. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 66.4 million shares of common stock available for future issuance. The approximately 43.6 million shares reserved for issuance include the reservation of the maximum amount of shares that can be issued upon the exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury (approximately 15.5 million shares). An insufficient number of authorized shares of common stock available for future issuance could adversely affect our ability to pursue a number of capital management strategies and alternatives, including raising additional Tier 1 capital to bolster our capital position. Under Georgia law, shareholder approval is required in order to amend our articles of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock. We anticipate including such a proposal for consideration at our 2010 annual meeting of shareholders; however, we cannot provide any assurances that our shareholders will approve any such proposal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 