Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although this section attempts to highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: We face intense competition from other financial service providers. We operate in a highly competitive environment in the products and services we offer and the markets in which we serve. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. 10 Table of Contents Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies now can merge by creating a “financial holding company,” which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Recently, a number of foreign banks have acquired financial services companies in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. We expect the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. The strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we operate may be different than expected, and we may not be able to successfully manage any impact from slowing economic conditions or consumer spending. Our business and earnings are affected by general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and in particular, the states where we have significant operations, including Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate and consumer spending, borrowing and savings habits. For example, an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for loan and non-loan products and services and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. Nonpayment of loans, if it occurs, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, an economic downturn, whether national or local, can hurt our financial performance. We may not be able to successfully manage the impact from such slowing economic conditions. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay is generally preceded by missed payments. In some instances, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, although this is not generally the case. Customers who declare bankruptcy frequently do not repay their loans. Where we have collateral, we attempt to seize it when customers default on their loans. The value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses and may increase our cost of funds. 11 Table of Contents The trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws of the federal government and its agencies, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board, significantly affect our earnings. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loans, which could materially adversely affect us. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our cost to borrow funds and increase the rate we pay on deposits. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by users. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to generate significant levels of new business in our existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of products and services or developing and maintaining loyal customers and/or breaking into targeted markets. We must respond to rapid technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. We have pursued a strategy of acquiring banks and financial services companies and these acquisitions may be more difficult to integrate than anticipated. We regularly explore opportunities to acquire banks and financial services companies and expect to grow, in part, through such acquisitions. In addition, TSYS also acquires companies to enhance its functionality and product offerings. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company 12 Table of Contents may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits of the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. These factors could contribute to us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frames, if at all. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs may hurt our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies, and changes in laws and regulations may affect our financial outlook. Synovus, our subsidiary banks, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries, including TSYS, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. For more information, refer to “Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” on page 4. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, a reduction in our debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts could affect our business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response to acts or threats of terrorism and/or military conflicts, could negatively affect business and economic conditions in the U.S. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. 14 Table of Contents In addition to the factors discussed above, the following factors concerning TSYS’ business may cause our results to differ from the results discussed in forward-looking statements: Security and privacy breaches may damage our reputation and business. Any failures in our security and privacy measures, including the security and privacy measures at TSYS, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. TSYS electronically stores personal information about consumers who are customers of its clients. If TSYS is unable to protect, or its clients’ perceive that it is unable to protect, the security and privacy of its electronic transactions, our business and reputation could be materially adversely affected. While we believe TSYS uses proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market positions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. TSYS may be unable to achieve its annual earnings goals. TSYS’ earnings have historically constituted approximately one-third of Synovus’ net income. As such, TSYS’ annual earnings projection is one of the assumptions upon which Synovus’ annual earnings projections are based. There is no guarantee that TSYS will be able to meet its annual earnings projections. Any shortfall in TSYS achieving its earnings goals could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of Synovus. The merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS clients or the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS clients could materially impact our financial condition. Consolidation among financial institutions, particularly in the area of credit card operations, continues to be a major risk. Specifically, TSYS faces risk that its clients may merge with entities that are not TSYS clients or its clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not TSYS clients, thereby impacting TSYS existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. During 2005, for example, Bank of America acquired MBNA Corporation, making it one of the largest card issuers in the U.S. In December 2005, TSYS received official notification from Bank of America of its intent to shift the processing of its consumer card portfolio in house in October 2006 in connection with the acquisition of MBNA. This kind of consolidation and the loss of any significant client by TSYS could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. TSYS may not be able to successfully manage its intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. In the rapidly developing legal framework, TSYS relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect its proprietary technology. Despite TSYS’ efforts to protect its intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate TSYS’ intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to TSYS. TSYS’ competitors may independently develop similar 15 Table of Contents technology, duplicate its products or services or design around TSYS’ intellectual property rights. TSYS may have to litigate to enforce and protect its intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm TSYS’ business and ability to compete. TSYS may also be subject to costly litigation in the event its products and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by TSYS’ products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against TSYS with respect to its products or technology. TSYS may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject TSYS to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require TSYS to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of TSYS’ management and employees. Any claim from third parties may result in limitation on TSYS’ ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 