Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although this section attempts to highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: We face intense competition from other financial service providers. We operate in a highly competitive environment in the products and services we offer and the markets in which we serve. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies now can merge by creating a “financial holding company,” which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, a number of foreign banks have acquired financial services companies in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. 8 Table of Contents market. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. We expect the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. The strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we operate may be different than expected, and we may not be able to successfully manage any impact from slowing economic conditions or a weak real estate market. Our business and earnings are affected by general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and in particular, the states where we have significant operations, including Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate and consumer spending, borrowing and savings habits. For example, certain markets in which we operate have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes and declines in new home building. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in residential construction and development loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. We have experienced a downturn in credit performance, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 2007, and we expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near term. This deterioration has resulted in an increase in our provision expense for losses on loans during 2007, which increases were driven primarily by residential construction and development loans. Additional increases in provision expense may be necessary in the future. Deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Recently declining values of residential real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. The trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws of the federal government and its agencies, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board, significantly affect our earnings. 9 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loans, which could materially adversely affect us. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our cost to borrow funds and increase the rate we pay on deposits. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by users. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to generate significant levels of new business in our existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of products and services or developing and maintaining loyal customers and/or breaking into targeted markets. We must respond to rapid technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. We have pursued a strategy of acquiring banks and financial services companies and these acquisitions may be more difficult to integrate than anticipated. We regularly explore opportunities to acquire banks and financial services companies and expect to grow, in part, through such acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits of the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the 10 Table of Contents business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. These factors could contribute to us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frames, if at all. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs may hurt our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies, and changes in laws and regulations may affect our financial outlook. Synovus, our subsidiary banks, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties that may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and damage to our reputation. For more information, refer to “Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” on page 2. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay is generally preceded by missed payments. In some instances, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, although this is not generally the case. Customers who declare bankruptcy frequently do not repay their loans. Where we have collateral, we attempt to seize it when customers default on their loans. The value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses and may increase our cost of funds. Our financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to our reputation. Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our access to funds from our subsidiaries may become limited, thereby restricting our ability to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Synovus is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We therefore depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund 12 Table of Contents all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Our banking subsidiaries and certain other of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, a reduction in our debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. We rely on our systems and employees and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is a risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us 13 Table of Contents to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 