Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights some of the specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight some of the key factors, please be aware that these risks are not the only risks we face; other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events Recent turmoil in the real estate markets and the tightening of credit have adversely affected the financial services industry and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent turmoil in the housing and real estate markets, including falling real estate prices, increasing foreclosures, and rising unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of loans secured by real estate and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by banks and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many banks and financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with other financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing credit to borrowers, including other financial institutions, which, in turn, has led to a global credit crisis. This market turmoil and credit crisis has resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to result in credit losses and write-downs in the future. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. Since October 2008, a host of legislation has been enacted in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. • On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA pursuant to which, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. • On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. • On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. • On February 10, 1009, the Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan under 21 Table of Contents the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. • On February 18, 2009, President Obama signed the ARRA, a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Capital Purchase Program, the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, we may face additional regulation, and we cannot predict the cost or effects of compliance at this time. In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program administered under the TARP, we may face additional regulations and/or reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, the following: • Section 5.3 of the standardized Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the Treasury provides, in part, that the Treasury “may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes.” This provision could give Congress the ability to impose “after-the-fact” terms and conditions on participants in the Capital Purchase Program. As a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, we would be subject to any such retroactive legislation. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. • Participation in the Capital Purchase Program will limit our ability to increase our dividend on, or to repurchase, our common stock (without the consent of the Treasury) for so long as any securities issued under the program remain outstanding. • The FDIC recently requested that all state-chartered banks monitor and report how they have spent funds received from the Treasury in connection with TARP funds. • Participation in the Temporary Liquidity Program will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. Additionally, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 22 Table of Contents As a result, we may face increased regulation, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We cannot predict the effect that participating in these programs may have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future or what additional regulations and/or requirements we may become subject to as a result of our participation in these programs. Future legislation could harm our competitive position. Congress is likely to consider additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as our current operating environment significantly. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with whom we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Business Risks The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets may lead to increased non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision expense for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. In particular, market conditions in the Atlanta and the West Coast of Florida markets, which collectively represent 56.2% of our non-performing assets at December 31, 2008, have experienced continued declines in credit quality since the end of 2007. Synovus’ non-performing assets were $1.17 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $443.6 million at December 31, 2007. Non- performing assets in the Atlanta area and West Coast of Florida markets represented 39.7% and 16.5%, respectively, of Synovus’ total non-performing assets at December 31, 2008. If 23 Table of Contents market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the loss severities of loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. We may also realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. Poor economic conditions could result in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, such economic downturns could adversely affect the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of non-performing loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout Synovus’ footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay is generally preceded by missed payments. In some instances, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, although this is not generally the case. Customers who declare bankruptcy frequently do not repay their loans. Where our loans are secured by collateral, we attempt to seize the collateral when customers default on their loans. The value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to raise revenue to compensate for these losses and may increase our cost of funds. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, all as described under Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-7 and F-8 of the Financial Appendix and under “Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Loan Losses” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” Section on pages F-59 through F-62 of the Financial Appendix. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may 24 Table of Contents require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. In light of current market conditions, we regularly reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses increased from 1.39% of total loans at December 31, 2007 to 2.14% at December 31, 2008. We made a provision for loan losses in 2008 of approximately $699.9 million, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. We also charged-off approximately $469.2 million in loans, net of recoveries, during 2008, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. We will likely experience further increases in classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any further increase in our non-performing assets, any increase in our loan charge-offs, in our provision for loan losses or the continuation of aggressive charge-off policy or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. Synovus’ net interest income could be negatively affected by the lower level of short-term interest rates, recent developments in the credit and real estate markets and competition in our primary market area. Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, is a major component of our income. Our income is in turn our primary source of funding for our operations, including extending credit and reserving for loan losses. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 2008. A significant portion of our loans, including residential construction and development loans and other commercial loans, bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates on a significant portion of these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, which may reduce our net interest income. In addition, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may offer more attractive interest rates to depositors, and we may increasingly rely on out-of-market or brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. Increased non-performing loans and the decrease in interest rates reduced our net interest income during 2008 and could cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. This reduction in net interest income may also be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market area. Any significant reduction in our net interest income could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Diminished access to alternative sources of liquidity could adversely affect our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity. We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits could exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. If our access to these sources of liquidity is diminished, or only available on unfavorable terms, then our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity likely could be adversely affected. Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. Although our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, there can be no assurance that Synovus will retain these ratings. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and may result in disruptions in our ability to access sources of funds, which may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings and brokered deposits. We have also historically enjoyed a solid reputation in the capital markets and have been able to raise funds in the form of either short or long-term borrowings or equity issuances. Recently, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access certain of our sources of funding may be disrupted. We may not realize the expected benefits from Project Optimus. Project Optimus, launched in April 2008, is a team member-driven effort to create an enhanced banking experience for our customers and a more efficient organization that delivers 26 Table of Contents greater value for Synovus shareholders. As a result of this process, Synovus plans to implement ideas which are expected to increase annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $75 million. Synovus’ future results may potentially impacted by the results of the implementation of the Project Optimus initiatives. The amounts of efficiency gains and earnings from new revenue growth initiatives are generally based on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and operating expenses. These estimates and assumptions may or may not prove to be inaccurate in some respects. In addition, Synovus is subject to various risks inherent in its business. These risks may cause the anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from Project Optimus not to be achieved in their entirety, not to be accomplished within the expected time frame, or to result in implementation charges beyond those currently contemplated or could result in some other unanticipated adverse impact. Furthermore, the implementation of cost savings ideas may have unintended impacts on Synovus’ ability to attract and retain business and customers, while revenue enhancement ideas may not be successful in the marketplace or may result in unintended costs. Assumed attrition required to achieve workforce reductions may not come in the right places or at the right times to meet planned goals. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the anticipated benefits from Project Optimus will be realized, and we may be unable to execute our business strategy and achieve our strategic and financial objectives. As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: • Any decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as our deferred tax asset; or • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. Any such increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Furthermore, if we are unable to continue to generate, or demonstrate that we can continue to generate, sufficient taxable income in the near future, then we may not be able to fully realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets and may be required to recognize a valuation allowance, similar to an impairment of those assets, if it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. 27 Table of Contents We face intense competition from other financial service providers. We operate in a highly competitive environment in the products and services we offer and the markets in which we serve. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings to the customer. Some of our competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. Moreover, this highly competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies now can merge by creating a “financial holding company,” which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, a number of foreign banks have acquired financial services companies in the U.S., further increasing competition in the U.S. market. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. We expect the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. The trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws of the federal government and its agencies, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board, significantly affect our earnings. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, decreases in interest rates could reduce our net interest income or cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies and laws are beyond our control and hard to predict. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by users. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. We provide these products and services to our consumer and corporate customers through a decentrailzed network of banks and other Synovus businesses that operate autonomously within their respective communities. While our operating model provides us with a competitive advantage in maintaining a community focus and in providing customer service, our model is, in many respects, less efficient to operate. Moreover, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which is difficult to do across a network like ours. This can reduce our overall net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to generate significant levels of new business in our existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Further, the 28 Table of Contents widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of products and services or developing and maintaining loyal customers and/or breaking into targeted markets. We must respond to rapid technological changes and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Fluctuations in our expenses and other costs may hurt our financial results. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses. We are aggressively managing our expenses in the current economic environment but as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise. Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies, and changes in laws and regulations may affect our financial outlook. Synovus and our subsidiary banks, and many of our nonbank subsidiaries, are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, including EESA, TARP, the Financial Stability Plan, and the ARRA could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties that may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and damage to our reputation, and loss of our financial services holding company status. Furthermore, various federal and state bodies regulate and supervise our nonbank subsidiaries, including our brokerage, investment advisory, insurance agency and processing operations. These include, but are not limited to, the SEC, 29 Table of Contents FINRA, federal and state banking regulators and various state regulators of insurance and brokerage activities. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic crisis, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could be expensive for us to address and/or could result in our changing the way that we do business. For more information, refer to “Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” beginning on page 6. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Our financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to our reputation. Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. 30 Table of Contents Our access to funds from our subsidiaries may become limited, thereby restricting our ability to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Synovus is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We therefore depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Our banking subsidiaries and certain other of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to us. Synovus expects that dividends from subsidiaries in 2008 will be significantly lower than those received in previous years. Regulations on bank and financial holding companies may also restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. See “Item 1. Business- Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors — Dividends.” Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, a reduction in our debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. 31 Table of Contents If repurchase and indemnity demands are significant, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We rely on our systems and employees, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is a risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. We may make acquisitions of banks and financial services companies or related assets, and these acquisitions may be more difficult to integrate than anticipated. Historically, we have grown through acquisition of banks and financial services companies, and in the current environment, we may acquire banks or bank-related assets. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company or assets may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits of the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 Table of Contents 