Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our status as a non-investment grade issuer and any further reductions in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets and impact our liquidity.” of this Report. We are subject to regulatory initiatives applicable to financial institutions in general and TARP recipients in particular that could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees and pursue business opportunities and could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors. Our financial success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees from financial institutions and others. Until we repay the TARP funds, we are subject to additional, and possibly changing, regulatory scrutiny and restrictions regarding the compensation of certain executives and associates as established under TARP guidelines. The increased scrutiny and restrictions related to our compensation practices, as well as any negative public attention that we may receive by virtue of our outstanding TARP funds, may adversely impact our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key employees, which in turn may impact our ability to pursue business opportunities and could otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. See “Part I - Item 1. Business -Actions by Federal and State Regulators” and “Part I - Item 1- Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” of this Report for further information. In addition to the guidelines on incentive and senior officer compensation under TARP, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the implementation of a variety of corporate governance and compensation practices applicable to all public companies, including Synovus, which may impact certain of Synovus' executive officers and employees. These provisions include, but are not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, provide shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, to consider the independence of compensation advisors and new executive compensation disclosure requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires banking regulators to issue regulations or guidelines to prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing excessive compensation 36Table of Contentsor that may lead to material loss at certain financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets. Such provisions with respect to compensation, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on the ability of Synovus to attract and retain skilled personnel. Further, in June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the FDIC jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. This regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. These restrictions may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have repaid all TARP funds before us, or who did not receive TARP funds, and with non-financial institutions in terms of attracting and retaining senior level employees. Furthermore, to the extent that our competitors repay their TARP funds before us, our reputation and the public perception of our financial condition may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our stock price. Regulation of the financial services industry continues to undergo major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. Between 2009 and 2011, many emergency government programs enacted in 2008 in response to the financial crisis and the recession slowed or wound down, and global regulatory and legislative focus has generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which has, and will continue to substantially change the legal and regulatory framework under which we operate. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, mortgage lending practices, registration of investment advisors and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. Among the provisions that may affect the operations of Synovus Bank or Synovus are the following: •Creation of the CFPB with centralized authority, including examination and enforcement authority, for consumer protection in the banking industry. •New limitations on federal preemption. •New prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of a banking entity and nonbank financial company to engage in proprietary trading and have certain interests in, or relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund.•Application of new regulatory capital requirements, including changes to leverage and risk-based capital standards and changes to the components of permissible tiered capital. •Requirement that the company and its subsidiary bank be well capitalized and well managed in order to engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. •Changes to the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums. •Permanently raising the FDIC's standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance. •Repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, effective July 21, 2011, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. •Restrictions on compensation, including a prohibition on incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. •Requirement that sponsors of asset-backed securities retain a percentage of the credit risk of the assets underlying the securities.•Requirement that banking regulators remove references to and requirements of reliance upon credit ratings from their regulations and replace them with appropriate alternatives for evaluating credit worthiness.Some of these and other major changes could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. For example, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to debit card interchange fees have reduced our fee income. We may not be able to fully replace the revenue lost by this limitation. As a result of the expiration of unlimited insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing demand transaction accounts after December 31, 2012, we may see a run-off in certain noninterest-bearing demand deposits to the extent such deposits exceed the FDIC's $250,000 per depositor maximum insurance coverage limit, which may adversely impact our liquidity. Many of these provisions became effective upon enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, while others are subject to further study, rulemaking, and the discretion of regulatory bodies. In light of these significant changes and the discretion afforded to federal regulators, we cannot 37Table of Contentsfully predict the effect that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any implementing regulations will have on Synovus' businesses or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect Synovus' business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain other reform proposals under consideration, including new proposed regulatory capital requirements proposed by the BCBS under Basel III, could result in Synovus becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. It was anticipated that new capital requirements would be phased-in for U.S. financial institutions beginning in 2013. However, on November 9, 2012, U.S. regulators announced that the implementation of rules implementing Basel III would be delayed, and regulators have not provided a specific timeframe for their implementation of these requirements. See “Part I - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors” of this Report for further information. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may be unable to pay dividends on our Common Stock. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our Common Stock, holders of our Common Stock are not legally entitled to receive dividends. The reduction or elimination of dividends paid on our Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the Federal Reserve could decide at any time that paying any Common Stock dividends could be an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Any of these decisions could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. For a discussion of current regulatory limits on our ability to pay dividends above $0.01 per common share, see “Part I - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors - Dividends,” “Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors - We presently are subject to, and in the future may become subject to, supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our Common Stock” and “Part II - Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities - Dividends” in this Report for further information. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those changes, we will not be able to effectively compete.The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with the technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, and regulatory and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and regulatory and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, including unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. See “Part I - Item 1. Business - Enterprise Risk Management” of this Report for further information. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Synovus can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Our business involves storing and processing sensitive consumer and business customer data. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Furthermore, a cyber-security breach could result in theft of such data.Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record 38Table of Contentsand process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach, which could result in serious reputational harm to our business, disrupt our business and lead to significant costs and losses. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Synovus have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC's, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Synovus' or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Synovus' or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Synovus is under continuous threat of loss due to hacking and cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business. Two of the most significant cyber-attack risks that we face are e-fraud and loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from customer or our accounts. The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, are less frequent but could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us if successful. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we have been the subject of attempted hacking and cyber-attacks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and the disruption of our operations, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could 39Table of Contentsadversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us. Furthermore, our vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or other financial institutions or counterparties, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in “Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” and "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 21 - Legal Proceedings" of this Report. Synovus cannot predict the outcome of these or any other legal matters. For those legal matters where Synovus is able to estimate a range of reasonably possible losses, Synovus' management currently estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is from zero to $75 million. This estimated aggregate range is based upon information currently available to Synovus, and the actual losses could prove to be higher (or lower). As there are further developments in these legal matters, Synovus will reassess these matters and the estimated range of reasonably possible losses may change as a result of this assessment. In addition, in the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management's attention and other resources away from our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. We may be required to record goodwill impairment charges in the future. Under GAAP, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill, to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and as events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of goodwill was $24.4 million, consisting of goodwill associated with two financial management services reporting units. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of the reporting units, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. “See “Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Goodwill" and “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 8 - Goodwill” in this Report for further information. A significant negative change in the expected future cash flows, estimated fair value or any of the other assumptions used in evaluating goodwill may necessitate us taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill.Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits, which could affect our income and force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. We may experience an outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields, including by banking with on-line banks that offer higher rates than traditional banks, prefer to do business with our competitors, or decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. This outflow of deposits could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. Furthermore, it could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in dilution of our existing shareholders. Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry, generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems in the past and could do so in the future and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.40Table of ContentsOur stock price has been and is likely to be volatile, and the value of your investment may decline. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. The stock market in general, and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance, and the value of your investment may decline.We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Synovus Mortgage sells substantially all of the mortgage loans that it originates. While the loans are sold without recourse, the purchase agreements require Synovus Mortgage to make certain representations and warranties regarding the existence and sufficiency of file documentation and the absence of fraud by borrowers or other third parties such as appraisers in connection with obtaining the loan. If it is determined that loans sold were in breach of these representations or warranties, Synovus Mortgage has obligations to either repurchase the loan at the unpaid principal balance and related investor fees or make the purchaser whole for any economic losses associated with the loan. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions designed to address perceived deficiencies in the residential mortgage loan origination and underwriting process, in part by creating new documentation requirements and underwriting criteria and increasing the potential liability of Synovus and Synovus Mortgage to their customers if Synovus and Synovus Mortgage fail to take steps to ensure and document that each borrower has the capacity and the ability to repay their loans. To date, repurchase activity pursuant to the terms of these representations and warranties has been minimal and has primarily been associated with loans originated from 2005 through 2008. From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2012, Synovus Mortgage originated and sold approximately $7.11 billion of first lien GSE eligible mortgage loans and approximately $3.10 billion of first and second lien non-GSE eligible mortgage loans. The total expense pertaining to losses from repurchases of mortgage loans previously sold, including amounts accrued in accordance with ASC 450, was $6.7 million, $4.1 million, and $1.3 million, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The total accrued liability related to mortgage repurchase claims was $5.2 million and $3.3 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that in the current environment, Synovus Mortgage will not be required to repurchase substantially greater amounts of such mortgage loans, or make related indemnity payments to the purchasers of our mortgage loans. If the level of repurchases or indemnity demands becomes significant or Synovus Mortgage is alleged to be in non-compliance with the regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, our results of operations may be adversely affected.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, recently issued “ability-to-repay” and “qualified mortgage” rules that may have a negative impact on our loan origination process and foreclosure proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.The CFPB recently issued rules that are likely to impact our residential mortgage lending practices, and the residential mortgage market generally including rules that implement the “ability-to-repay” requirement and provide protection from liability for “qualified mortgages,” as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The ability-to-repay rule, which will take effect on January 10, 2014, requires lenders to consider, among other things, income, employment status, assets, payment amounts, and credit history before approving a mortgage, and provides a compliance “safe harbor” for lenders that issue certain “qualified mortgages.” The rules define a “qualified mortgage” to have certain specified characteristics, and generally prohibit loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years from being qualified mortgages. The rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that monthly payments be calculated based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years of the loan and that the borrower have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43 percent. While “qualified mortgages” will generally be afforded safe harbor status, a rebuttable presumption of compliance will attach to mortgages that also meet the definition of a “higher priced mortgage” (which are generally subprime loans). Although the new “qualified mortgage” rules may provide better definition and more certainty regarding regulatory requirements, the rules may also increase our compliance burden and reduce our lending flexibility and discretion, which could negatively impact our ability to originate new loans and the cost of originating new loans. Any loans that we make outside of the “qualified mortgage” criteria could expose us to an increased risk of liability and reduce or delay our ability to foreclose on the underlying property. Additionally, qualified “higher priced mortgages” only provide a rebuttable presumption of compliance and thus may be more susceptible to challenges from borrowers. It is difficult to predict how the CFPB's “qualified mortgage” rules will impact us when they take effect, but any decreases in loan origination volume or increases in compliance and foreclosure costs could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 41Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNONE.