Item 1A. Risk Factors CDI’s business involves a number of risks, many of which are beyond its control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces, management believes that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: Economic downturns and capital spending cuts by the Company’s customers may result in the loss of revenues and profitability. The demand for the Company’s services is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and the level of capital spending by the Company’s customers. The pace of customer capital spending programs, new product launches and similar activities have a direct impact on the need for project outsourcing and both temporary and permanent employees. Any deterioration in the economic condition of the United States or any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in any specific industry, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. CDI is engaged in a highly competitive business. Pricing pressures and increasing consolidation of purchasing by our customers could reduce our market share and profits. The staffing and professional services businesses are highly competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry for staffing services. CDI competes in global, national, regional, and local markets with numerous engineering and IT outsourcing companies and with temporary staffing and permanent placement firms. Price competition among companies in CDI’s industry and pricing pressures from customers are significant. The number of customers which consolidate their purchases of engineering and IT outsourcing and staffing services with a single provider or with a small number of providers has risen considerably. This trend to consolidate purchases can make it more difficult for the Company to obtain or retain customers. The Company could also face the risk that certain customers may decide to provide similar services internally. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid new contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, which could limit CDI’s ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. 7 Table of Contents The Company’s continued success is dependent on its ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. CDI depends upon its ability to attract qualified personnel who possess the skills and experience required by its customers and to successfully bid for new customer projects. CDI must continually evaluate its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional or technical skills always exists, and the demand for such individuals (particularly in certain engineering disciplines and geographic areas) is expected to remain very strong in the foreseeable future. There is always uncertainty whether qualified personnel will continue to be available to CDI in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to CDI. CDI faces competition from offshore outsourcing companies, which may result in a loss of market share and reduced profitability. There is increasing pressure on companies to outsource certain areas of their businesses to low-cost offshore outsourcing firms. Many engineering and IT outsourcing and staffing companies already have or are seeking an offshore solution to support their technology and business process functions, and as a result, a significant amount of technology and engineering project and staffing work may be replaced by offshore resources. CDI has established partnering arrangements with offshore companies to provide lower cost options to its customers. Conducting business through offshore arrangements entails additional compliance and regulatory issues and may result in additional costs. Changes in the supply and demand for offshore personnel with the training to perform the IT and engineering services sought by CDI’s customers, as well as other factors affecting offshore labor costs, could raise CDI’s costs which would put pressure on our margins. Also, other offshore solution providers could develop direct relationships with CDI’s customers resulting in a significant loss of the Company’s market share and revenue. Changes in government regulations could result in loss of business and/or increased costs. CDI’s business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material in the future. Any inability to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements, or increase in the cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect the Company. Changes in government regulations could result in the imposition of new or additional benefits, licensing or tax requirements. There can be no assurance that CDI would be able to increase the fees charged to its customers in a timely manner or in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any of the foregoing. Staffing services entail employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in customers’ workplaces. Therefore, increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could materially adversely affect the Company. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. From time to time, various types of legal claims arise in connection with the ordinary course of CDI’s business. Employees of the Company may make a variety of claims including workplace injury claims and employment-related claims such as discrimination, harassment, and wage and hour claims. Since the Company’s staffing business involves employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing them in customer workplaces where CDI has limited ability to control the workplace environment, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. The Company’s customers may make claims based on the Company’s alleged failure to perform in accordance with contract requirements. Since the Company’s project business often involves responsibility to produce specified deliverables, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. Customers in the staffing business may allege claims based on the conduct of staffing employees assigned to the customer’s worksite. Customers and subcontractors may make claims alleging the Company’s failure to abide by certain contract provisions. In addition, the Company is subject to possible government claims or fines for violations of various laws. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. CDI has significant payroll-related costs, such as workers’ compensation, unemployment taxes and health benefits, which are subject to increases caused by government regulation and other factors, and such increases could reduce its profits. In conducting its business, CDI is required to pay a number of payroll and related costs and expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance for its personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and liberalize allowable claims. The Company self-insures a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers’ compensation. The Company has established reserves for workers’ compensation claims based on historical loss statistics and periodic independent actuarial valuations. While management believes that its assumptions and estimates are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Company’s future financial results. CDI’s future earnings could be adversely affected if it is not able to increase the fees charged to customers to absorb the increased costs related to unemployment insurance, workers’ compensation and medical benefits. Also, its future earnings could also be adversely affected if state governments successfully challenge its prior year unemployment experience ratings. The Company depends upon the continued service of its senior management personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s operations depend on the continued efforts of its executives and senior management. The loss of key members 8 Table of Contents of our management team may cause a significant disruption to the Company’s business. CDI also depends on the performance and productivity of its local managers and sales and recruiting personnel. The Company’s ability to attract and retain new business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of key managers and field personnel may also jeopardize existing customer relationships, which could cause revenues to decline. The Company may experience adverse consequences arising out of an ongoing investigation by the U.K. Office of Fair Trading. In June 2006, the United Kingdom’s Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) opened an investigation into alleged anti-competitive behavior by Anders and a number of its competitors in the U.K. construction recruitment industry. The allegations being investigated include, among others, the competitors agreeing to minimum fees in their contracts with U.K. intermediary recruitment companies and declining to work with one particular U.K. intermediary recruitment company. Anders is cooperating with the OFT in the investigation under the OFT’s corporate leniency program. It is likely that the OFT will ultimately impose a fine on Anders. Although it is too early in the process to determine with any reliability the amount or materiality of that fine, the fine could be material and this matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. It is also possible that third-party civil lawsuits may be filed against Anders in connection with this matter. Anders could incur significant legal fees in connection with the OFT investigation and in defending any third-party lawsuits. Furthermore, this matter and the related publicity could adversely affect the reputation of Anders and the Company. Senior management at Anders and the Company may need to devote a significant amount of time with regard to this matter, which could distract them from the operation of the business. The Company has not made any provision for any fine or other liabilities relating to this matter in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company bears the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price contracts. CDI, within its Business Solutions segment, enters into fixed-price contracts with customers, primarily for engineering project services. Revenue recognized under fixed-price contracts accounts for less than 5% of consolidated revenue in each of the past three years. Under these fixed-price contracts, prices are established based on cost and scheduling estimates, which in turn are based in part on assumptions about the prices and availability of skilled personnel, equipment, and materials. If the Company’s price estimates for a particular project prove to be inaccurate, then cost overruns may occur, and CDI could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project and the Company’s reputation could be harmed. Cost overruns may also be caused by changes in the scope of the project after the contract has been entered into or by a failure of the parties to adequately define and agree upon the entire scope of the project at inception. In those cases, there may be disputes between the parties over who should pay for the cost overruns. The Company will attempt to negotiate change orders to recover the additional costs, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its negotiations with its customers. In general, fixed-price contracts can offer greater profit potential but also entail more inherent risk—both in terms of possible financial losses and the potential for significant disputes with customers—than contracts containing pricing on a time-and-materials basis. CDI’s international operations expose the Company to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase its U.S. dollar costs, or reduce its U.S. dollar revenues. The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. CDI’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates primarily to operations denominated in British pounds sterling, Euros and Canadian dollars. Exchange rate fluctuations impact the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from these foreign operations as well as the carrying value of CDI’s investment in the net assets related to these operations. From time to time, the Company engages in hedging activities with respect to its foreign operations. CDI relies on outside suppliers to perform certain administrative services. CDI outsources certain data processing, payroll and other administrative functions to companies that specialize in performing those services. The failure of such outside service providers to adequately perform such services could have a material adverse effect on CDI’s business and operations. If CDI fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which would harm its business and the trading price of its stock. CDI identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting at the end of 2004 and 2005. Those weaknesses have been remediated, and as of December 31, 2006, management has determined that the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are effective. However, if in the future the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, it may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in its financial reporting, which would harm its business and the trading price of its stock. Future acquisitions, if any, may not be successful. The Company may selectively pursue acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy, but it can not provide assurances that it will be able to locate suitable acquisitions or that it will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company, or that such transactions will be successful. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from its existing operations, 9 Table of Contents the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business, and the inability to successfully integrate the business. There can be no assurance that any future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings. Disasters could interfere with our ability to operate our business. Various types of natural or man-made disasters could interfere with the Company’s continued ability to operate its business normally. For example, the Company’s ability to protect its data centers and information systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of its services, CDI must be able to store, retrieve, process, and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect CDI’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing CDI for future services. While the Company has developed various backup plans and disaster recovery plans, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to continue to operate its business smoothly in the face of certain natural or man-made disasters. Such business interruptions could significantly harm CDI’s financial results and future prospects. Certain of the Company’s customers operate in areas that may be impacted by severe weather conditions. The Company services the oil, gas and chemical industries, which have a significant concentration of activities in the Gulf Coast of the United States. This area can be impacted by severe weather, negatively impacting our customers and our ability to serve them. The Company may not be able to obtain the insurance coverages necessary to manage its risks. The Company relies on insurance to help manage its risks and to limit the Company’s exposure to significant claims. The future availability and cost of such insurance is subject to market forces and CDI’s claims experience. There can be no assurance that the Company can always obtain and maintain appropriate insurance coverage in order to effectively manage the risks of its business. A significant portion of the Company’s common stock is owned by related parties, and they could vote their shares in a way that is adverse to the interests of other shareholders. Certain of CDI’s directors, and trusts for which some of the Company’s directors serve as trustee, own a substantial portion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. By virtue of this stock ownership, such shareholders have the power to significantly influence CDI’s affairs and are able to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the amendment of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws. Such shareholders could exercise influence over the Company in a manner adverse to the interests of CDI’s other shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 