Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond its control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Management believes that the more significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: Economic Trends The demand for the Company’s services is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the Company’s customers. The pace of customer capital spending programs, new product launches, and similar activities has a direct impact on the need for temporary and permanent employees and for project outsourcing. Any deterioration in the economic condition of the United States or any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in any specific industry, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Government Regulations The Company is subject to various laws which regulate the employer-employee relationship and impose registration, licensing, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, among other things. Changes in any of those government regulations could result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of new or additional benefits, licensing, or tax requirements. There can be no assurance that CDI would be able to increase the fees charged to its customers in a timely manner or in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any of the foregoing. Material Weakness in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting The Company has identified a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting for the second consecutive year as of December 31, 2005. CDI is committed to, and is actively engaged in, remedying this matter. See Item 9A “Controls and Procedures”, in this Form 10-K for further information. The failure to implement, or delays in implementing, the improvements necessary to remedy the material weakness could adversely affect the ability of the Company to report reliable financial information on a timely basis and to comply with the financial reporting requirements under applicable governmental and stock exchange rules. Highly Competitive Business The staffing services business is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. CDI competes in global, national, regional, and local markets with numerous temporary staffing and permanent placement engineering and IT outsourcing companies. Price competition is significant, and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services and engineering and IT outsourcing purchases with a single provider or with a small number of providers. The trend to consolidate purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for the Company to obtain or retain customers. The Company also faces the risk that certain customers may decide to provide similar services internally. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid new contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future which could limit CDI’s ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. Offshore Outsourcing Markets There is increasing pressure on companies to outsource certain areas of their businesses to low-cost offshore outsourcing firms. Many staffing, engineering and IT outsourcing companies are now seeking an offshore solution to support their technology and business process functions, and as a result, a significant amount of technology staffing may be replaced by offshore resources. CDI has established partnering arrangements with offshore companies to provide lower cost options to its customers. However, offshore solution providers could develop direct relationships with CDI’s customers resulting in a significant loss of the Company’s market share and revenue. Availability of Qualified Candidates CDI depends upon its ability to attract qualified personnel who possess the skills and experience required by its customers and 7 Table of Contents to successfully bid for new customer projects. CDI must continually evaluate its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional or technical skills always exists, and demand for such individuals is expected to remain very strong in the foreseeable future. There is always uncertainty whether qualified personnel will continue to be available to CDI in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to CDI. Potential Liability to Employees, Customers and Subcontractors From time to time, various types of legal claims arise in connection with the ordinary course of CDI’s business. Employees of the Company may make a variety of claims including workplace injury claims and employment-related claims such as discrimination, harassment, and wage and hour claims. Since the Company’s staffing business involves employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing them in customer workplaces where CDI has limited ability to control the workplace environment, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. The Company’s customers may make claims based on the Company’s alleged failure to perform in accordance with contract requirements. Since the Company’s project business often involves responsibility to produce specified deliverables, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. Customers in the staffing business may allege claims based on the conduct of staffing employees assigned to the customer’s worksite. Customers and subcontractors may make claims alleging the Company’s failure to abide by certain contract provisions. Fixed-Price Contracts CDI, within its BS segment, enters into fixed-price contracts with customers, primarily for engineering project services. Revenue recognized under fixed-price contracts accounts for less than 5% of consolidated revenue in each of the past three years. Under these fixed-price contracts, prices are established based on cost and scheduling estimates, which in turn are based in part on assumptions about the prices and availability of skilled personnel, equipment, and materials. If the Company’s price estimates for a particular project prove to be inaccurate, then cost overruns may occur, and CDI could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project. Cost overruns may also be caused by changes in the scope of the project after the contract has been entered into or by a failure of the parties to adequately define and agree upon the entire scope of the project at inception. In those cases, there may be disputes between the parties over who should pay for the cost overruns. In general, fixed-price contracts can offer greater profit potential but also entail more inherent risk—both in terms of possible financial losses and the potential for significant disputes with customers—than contracts containing pricing on a time-and-materials basis. Workers’ Compensation The Company self-insures a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers’ compensation. The Company has established reserves for workers’ compensation claims based on historical loss statistics and periodic independent actuarial valuations. While management believes that its assumptions and estimates are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Company’s future financial results. Dependence Upon Personnel The Company’s operations depend on the continued efforts of its officers and executive management. The loss of key officers and members of executive management may cause a significant disruption to the Company’s business. CDI also depends on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. The Company’s ability to attract and retain new business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of key managers and field personnel may also jeopardize existing customer relationships, which could cause revenues to decline. Concentration of Stock Ownership Certain of CDI’s directors, and trusts for which some of the Company’s directors serve as trustee, own a substantial portion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. By virtue of this stock ownership, such shareholders have the power to significantly influence CDI’s affairs and are able to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the amendment of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws. Such shareholders could exercise influence over the Company in a manner adverse to the interests of CDI’s other shareholders. Foreign Currency Fluctuations The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. CDI’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates primarily to operations in foreign countries conducted through subsidiaries, principally in the United Kingdom and Canada. Exchange rate fluctuations impact the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings derived from these foreign operations as well as the carrying value of CDI’s investment in the net assets related to these operations. From time to time, the Company engages in hedging activities with respect to its foreign operations. Historically, the effects of foreign currency exchange fluctuations have been immaterial on CDI’s consolidated earnings. Acquisitions The Company may selectively pursue acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from its existing operations, the failure to retain key personnel or 8 Table of Contents customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business, and the inability to successfully integrate the business. There can be no assurance that any future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings. Data Center Capacity and Telecommunication Links The Company’s ability to protect its data centers against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of its services, CDI must be able to store, retrieve, process, and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could adversely affect CDI’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing CDI for future services. Geographic Concentration The Company services the oil, gas and chemical industries, which have a significant concentration of activities in the Gulf Coast of the United States. This area can be impacted by severe weather, negatively impacting our customers and our ability to serve them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 