Item 1A. Risk Factors CDI’s business involves a number of risks, many of which are beyond its control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties the Company faces, management believes that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: CDI’s business is heavily dependent on capital spending by customers in the industries it serves, and cuts in capital spending and economic downturns may result in the loss of revenue and profitability. The demand for the Company’s services is highly dependent upon the level of capital spending by the Company’s customers, especially in the ES segment. The pace of customer capital spending programs, new product launches and similar activities have a direct impact on the need for project outsourcing and both temporary and permanent employees. There have been and may continue to be delays and cancellations of projects due to credit constraints and weak economic conditions experienced by CDI’s customers, which has and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s revenue stream. Further weakening of the economic condition of the US or any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in any specific industry served, could have a further negative effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect CDI’s business. Financial markets in the US, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption in late 2008 and 2009, causing severely tightened credit availability, increases in unemployment and general declines in the US economy and economies around the world. While these conditions appear to be improving, the changes are gradual, and many companies are limiting and may continue to limit their spending on the services which CDI provides, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating performance. The Anders and MRI segments earn revenue when qualified candidates accept open positions with potential employers. These employers may postpone or cut back on hiring in efforts to cut costs. In addition, as a result of the economic downturn, candidates may be less likely to take the risk of seeking new employment, creating a lack of qualified candidates. Both of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating performance. In addition, the MRI segment derives royalty revenue from franchisees. If persons hoping to start MRI franchises are unable to obtain credit, they could be prevented from purchasing franchises, which could impede the Company’s growth in that sector. If current franchisees are unable to obtain credit, it could cause downsizing in their organizations, in turn negatively affecting MRI’s royalty revenue, potentially having a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial and operating performance. While CDI manages its cost structure in response to reduced demand for the Company’s services, the associated costs may negatively impact our results and these efforts may not be successful in having us remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain our current profit margins. The Company’s revenues are subject to uncertainties and cyclicality. CDI’s results of operations depend on, among other factors, new contract awards, and the selection process and timing for performing these contracts are subject to contingencies beyond the Company’s control. In addition, the Company’s customer contracts and arrangements may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by its customers, in some cases on short notice. A significant portion of revenues is directly or indirectly derived from awards of long-term contracts. It is difficult to predict whether and when the Company will receive such awards due to the typically lengthy and complex bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, customers’ financing arrangements and governmental approvals. Because a meaningful portion of revenues is generated from these contracts, CDI’s results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of contract awards. Many of the industries CDI serves historically have been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the domestic and international economies, such as what was experienced in 2008 and 2009. Consequently, CDI’s results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate depending on the demand for services from these industries. 8 Table of Contents Fluctuations in commodity prices (such as chemicals or oil and gas) can have a significant impact on the Company’s ES segment, since those prices have a direct effect on our customers’ decisions to invest in capital projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the financial returns on those projects, which may result in projects being delayed or cancelled. Furthermore, substantially all of the Company’s contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the customer. Many of the Company’s contracts, particularly in the staffing business, contain no minimum purchase obligations on the part of the customer. Project contracts are generally subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided. Accordingly, the Company does not have a guaranteed backlog of business. Contracts with the US federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. CDI is a party to prime contracts and subcontracts involving the US federal government and other governments and their agencies. Such contracts are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations. Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding. Contracts with the US federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding. Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, CDI’s government customers may terminate the Company’s contracts for convenience or decide not to renew the contracts with little or no prior notice. In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, profit and cost controls, and a variety of other legal requirements. For example, for contracts with the US federal government, the Company must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and Department of Defense security regulations. Government contracts may also contain terms (such as broad indemnification obligations) that expose the Company to higher levels of risk and potential liability than non-government contracts. The Company also is subject to government audits, investigations and proceedings and so-called “qui tam” actions brought by individuals or the government under the US False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws. For example, government agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations. If the Company violates a rule or regulation, fails to comply with a contractual or other requirement or does not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties. In addition, CDI’s government contracts could be terminated, the Company could be suspended or debarred from government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. Any of these actions could harm CDI’s reputation and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company may suffer a loss of business and experience other adverse consequences as a result of the UK Office of Fair Trading decision or the Department of Justice investigation. On September 30, 2009 the United Kingdom’s Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) issued a decision in its investigation into alleged anti-competitive behavior by Anders. The OFT had been investigating alleged violations of the UK Competition Act of 1998 by Anders and a number of its competitors in the UK construction recruitment industry during the time period of late 2004 to early 2006. The Company fully cooperated with the OFT in its investigation under the OFT’s leniency program. In its decision, the OFT stated that it made a finding that Anders did violate the UK Competition Act of 1998 and imposed a fine of $12.3 million for the violations, which is non-tax deductible. The Company recorded a charge for the full amount of the fine in the third quarter of 2009. The Company is appealing the OFT decision. No payment has been made pending the outcome of the appeal. Customers and potential customers could decide to discontinue doing business with Anders, to decrease the amount of business they do with Anders or to not award new business to Anders as a result of this OFT decision. Senior management at Anders and the Company will likely be required to devote a significant amount of time to repairing the relationship with any customer or potential customer that, as a result of the OFT decision, does decide to discontinue, decrease or not award new business to Anders, thereby decreasing the amount of time these management personnel are able to devote to other facets of the business. The OFT decision also could materially and adversely affect the overall reputation of Anders and the Company. In addition, it is possible that third party lawsuits could be filed against Anders in connection with this matter. In August 2009, the Civil Division of the US Department of Justice (“DOJ”) notified the Company of potential claims against it under the US False Claims Act. The claims stem from alleged mischarging of time on certain federal government projects. The DOJ has alleged the total value of mischarged time could equal $2.0 million. The US False Claims Act provides for treble damages as well as statutory penalties in the event a violation is ultimately determined. Based on the DOJ’s allegations, the statutory penalties could range from $1.7 million to $3.4 million. The Company, with assistance from outside legal counsel, is conducting a review of these allegations and is cooperating with the DOJ. The Company has established a reserve of $4.3 million as of December 31, 2009. The majority of this charge is not deductible for tax purposes. 9 Table of Contents If the DOJ investigation results in an outcome which is adverse to the Company, US government agencies, other customers and potential customers could decide to discontinue doing business with the Company, to decrease the amount of business they do with the Company or not to award new business to the Company. Also, the Company could be suspended or debarred from US government contract work. The Company’s senior management has been required to devote a significant amount of time to responding to the DOJ investigation and, in the event of an adverse outcome, would be required to devote a significant additional amount of time to repairing the relationship with any customer or potential customer that decides to discontinue, decrease or not award business to the Company, thereby decreasing the amount of time these management personnel are able to devote to other facets of the business. An adverse outcome also could materially adversely affect the overall reputation of the Company. The failure of customers to pay amounts owed to CDI could cause the Company to experience significant losses. Accounts receivable represent the largest asset on CDI’s balance sheet. While the Company takes steps to evaluate and manage the credit risks relating to its customers, economic downturns or events like those that began in 2008 and continued through 2009 can adversely affect various industries and, within those industries, particular customers’ ability to pay, which could reduce CDI’s ability to collect all amounts due from customers. In addition, there may be delays in payments from customers, which would increase the working capital which the Company needs to maintain and could impact our liquidity. In addition, in the staffing business, there are sometimes intermediaries between CDI and the customer, and therefore financial problems involving the intermediary company could pose credit risks to CDI. CDI is engaged in highly competitive businesses. Pricing pressures and increasing consolidation of purchasing by its customers could reduce the Company’s market share and profits. The engineering, IT and professional staffing businesses are highly competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry for staffing services. CDI competes in global, national, regional and local markets with numerous engineering and IT outsourcing companies and with temporary staffing and permanent placement firms. Price competition among companies in CDI’s industry and pricing pressures from customers are significant. The number of customers which consolidate their purchases of engineering and IT outsourcing and staffing services with a single provider or with a small number of providers has continued to rise. This long-term trend to consolidate purchases may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain or retain customers in the future. The Company could also face the risk that certain customers may decide to provide similar services internally. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid new contracts and seek price reductions on existing contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, which could limit CDI’s ability to maintain or increase its market share or profitability. The Company’s continued success is dependent on its ability to hire and retain qualified employees, both management and billable personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. CDI depends upon its ability to attract qualified personnel who possess the skills and experience required by its customers and to successfully bid for new customer projects. CDI must continually evaluate its base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional or technical skills always exists, and the demand for such individuals (particularly in certain engineering disciplines and geographic areas) is expected to remain strong in the foreseeable future. There is always uncertainty as to whether qualified personnel will continue to be available to CDI in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to CDI. The Company’s operations also depend on the continued efforts of its executives and senior management. The loss of key members of CDI’s management team may cause a significant disruption to the Company’s business. CDI also depends on the performance and productivity of its local managers and sales and recruiting personnel. The loss of key managers and field personnel may also jeopardize existing customer relationships, which could cause revenues to decline. CDI faces competition from global outsourcing companies, which may result in a loss of market share and reduced profitability. There is increasing pressure from customers on their suppliers to outsource certain areas of their businesses to low-cost offshore locations. Many engineering and IT outsourcing and staffing companies already have or are seeking an offshore solution to support their technology and business process functions, and as a result, a significant amount of domestic technology and engineering project work may utilize offshore capabilities as alternatives to domestic resources. CDI has established lower cost outsourcing centers and has partnered with offshore companies to provide additional lower cost options to its customers. Conducting business through offshore arrangements entails additional compliance and regulatory issues and may result in additional costs. CDI’s partnering arrangements are subject to the Company’s ability to maintain good working relationships with its foreign partners and on its partners’ ability to fulfill their obligations under CDI’s agreements with them. Changes in the supply and demand for offshore personnel with the training to perform the engineering and IT services sought by CDI’s customers, as well as other factors affecting offshore labor costs, could raise CDI’s costs, which would put pressure 10 Table of Contents on its margins. Also, other offshore solution providers could develop direct relationships with CDI’s customers resulting in a significant loss of the Company’s market share and revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations, weak foreign economies and unfavorable political developments in connection with CDI’s international operations could seriously harm its financial condition. CDI’s international operations are important to our business, and the Company expects that they will continue to account for an increasing portion of CDI’s total revenues. At a minimum, CDI’s reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, into the US dollar. CDI’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates primarily to operations denominated in British pounds sterling and Canadian dollars. Exchange rate fluctuations impact the US dollar value of reported earnings derived from these foreign operations as well as the Company’s investment in the net assets related to these operations. The Company has and may continue to engage in hedging activities with respect to certain of its foreign operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to a variety of other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: Ÿ Recessions in foreign economies and the impact on costs of doing business in those countries; Ÿ Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; Ÿ Changes in regulatory requirements; Ÿ The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions and the failure to comply with US export control laws; Ÿ The lack of well-developed legal systems and less established or traditional business practices in some countries, which could make it difficult for CDI to enforce its contractual rights; Ÿ Exposure to liability under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries; Ÿ Social, political and economic instability, including risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, insurrection and terrorism; Ÿ Limitations on the movement of cash and the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and Ÿ Logistical and communications challenges. CDI’s projects may encounter difficulties that result in additional costs, reductions in revenues, claims, disputes and the payment of damages. CDI’s projects often involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies, and broad construction management. The Company may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering, equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes and other factors, some of which are beyond its control, that impact its ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. In addition, the Company often relies on third-party equipment manufacturers as well as other third-party subcontractors to assist with the completion of its contracts. Any delay by these equipment manufacturers or subcontractors to complete their respective portions of a project, or any failure by subcontractors to satisfactorily complete their respective portions of a project, as well as other factors beyond the Company’s control, may result in delays in the overall progress of such project, cause CDI to incur additional costs or both. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and the Company may be required to compensate the customer for these delays. While CDI may recover these additional costs from the responsible vendor, subcontractor or other third party, the Company may not be able to recover all of these costs in all circumstances. In addition, some contracts may require CDI’s customers to provide it with design or engineering information or with equipment or materials to be used on the project. In some cases, the customer may provide CDI with deficient design or engineering information or equipment or may provide the information or equipment to it later than required by the project schedule. The customer may also determine, after commencement of the project, to change various elements of the project. CDI is subject to the risk that it might be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate it for the additional work or expenses incurred due to customer requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely provide required items. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require CDI to record an adjustment to amounts of revenues and gross profit that were recognized in prior periods. Any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company bears the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price contracts. CDI sometimes enters into fixed-price contracts with customers, primarily for engineering project services. Revenue recognized under fixed-price contracts accounts for less than 5% of consolidated revenue in each of the past three years. Under these fixed-price contracts, prices are established based on cost and scheduling estimates, which in turn are based in part on assumptions about the prices and availability of skilled personnel, equipment and materials. If the Company’s price estimates 11 Table of Contents for a particular project prove to be inaccurate, then cost overruns may occur, and CDI could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project and the Company’s reputation could be harmed. Cost overruns may also be caused by changes in the scope of the project after the contract has been entered into or by a failure of the parties to adequately define and agree upon the entire scope of the project at inception. In those cases, there may be disputes between the parties over who should pay for the cost overruns. The Company will attempt to negotiate change orders to recover the additional costs, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its negotiations with its customers. In general, fixed-price contracts can offer greater profit potential but also entail more inherent risk—both in terms of possible financial losses and the potential for significant disputes with customers—than contracts containing pricing on a time-and-materials basis. The Company’s project outsourcing services expose it to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims. In connection with certain of its project outsourcing services, the Company engineers and performs services in various types of facilities, including major industrial facilities, where accidents or system failures can be disastrous. The Company also provides engineering and related services in connection with major products such as aircraft engines and naval ships. Any catastrophic occurrences in excess of insurance limits relating to locations or products which are engineered by the Company or locations where its services are performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against the Company. Furthermore, the project outsourcing services CDI provides expose it to additional risks including equipment failures, personal injuries, property damage and unforeseen engineering, architectural and environmental problems, each of which could significantly impact the Company’s performance and materially impact its financial statements. Changes in government regulations could result in loss of business and increased costs. CDI’s business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance the Company will continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material in the future. Any failure to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements, or increase in the cost of compliance, could materially and adversely impact the Company. New government regulations could disrupt or reduce existing business done by the Company, though it can also provide new business opportunities. Changes in government regulations could result in the imposition of new or additional benefits, licensing or tax requirements, thereby increasing CDI’s costs of doing business. There can be no assurance that CDI would be able to increase the fees charged to its customers in a timely manner or in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any of the foregoing. CDI’s staffing services entail employing a large number of individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in customers’ workplaces. Therefore, increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could materially and adversely impact the Company. The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. From time to time, various types of legal claims arise in connection with the ordinary course of CDI’s business. Employees of the Company may make a variety of claims including workplace injury claims and employment-related claims such as discrimination, harassment, and wage and hour claims. Since the Company’s staffing business involves employing a large number of individuals on a temporary basis and placing them in customer workplaces where CDI has limited ability to control the workplace environment, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. The Company’s customers may make claims based on the Company’s alleged failure to perform in accordance with contract requirements. Since the Company’s project business often involves responsibility to produce specified deliverables, these types of claims may arise more frequently in those business operations. Customers in the staffing business may allege claims based on the conduct of staffing employees assigned to the customer’s worksite. Customers and subcontractors may make claims alleging CDI’s failure to abide by certain contract provisions. In addition, the Company is subject to possible government claims or fines for violations of various laws. See Note 13 – Legal Proceedings and Claims, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, for more information. CDI has significant payroll-related costs, such as workers’ compensation, unemployment taxes and health benefits, which are subject to increases caused by government regulation and other factors, and such increases could reduce its profits. In conducting its business, CDI pays a number of payroll and related costs and expenses, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and medical insurance for its personnel. Unemployment insurance premiums paid by employers typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment and could increase substantially in the current economic environment. Workers’ compensation costs may increase in the future if states raise benefit levels and liberalize allowable claims. The Company self-insures a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers’ compensation. The Company has established reserves for workers’ compensation claims based on historical loss statistics and periodic independent actuarial valuations. While management believes that its assumptions and estimates are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially and adversely affect the Company’s future financial results. 12 Table of Contents CDI’s future earnings could also be materially and adversely affected if it is not able to increase the fees charged to customers to absorb the increased costs related to unemployment insurance, workers’ compensation and medical benefits. In addition, its future earnings could also be materially and adversely affected by future cost increases. Disasters could interfere with CDI’s ability to operate its business. Certain of the Company’s customers operate in areas that may be impacted by severe weather conditions. Various types of natural or man-made disasters could interfere with the Company’s continued ability to operate its business normally. For example, the Company’s ability to protect its data centers and information systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters is critical. In order to provide many of its services, CDI must be able to store, retrieve, process and manage large databases and periodically expand and upgrade its capabilities. Any damage to the Company’s data centers or any failure of the Company’s telecommunication links that interrupts its operations or results in an inadvertent loss of data could materially and adversely affect CDI’s ability to meet its customers’ needs and their confidence in utilizing CDI for future services. While the Company has developed various backup plans and disaster recovery plans, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to continue to operate its business smoothly in the face of certain natural or man-made disasters. Such business interruptions could materially and adversely affect CDI’s financial results and future prospects. The Company services the oil, gas and chemical industries, each of which has a significant concentration of activities in the Gulf Coast of the US. CDI also has two major engineering centers in this area. The US Gulf Coast has been impacted by several hurricanes in the past, and could be further impacted by severe weather in the future. Some scientists believe that increased hurricane activity is associated with climate change. Hurricanes in the US Gulf Coast could negatively impact CDI’s customers and the Company’s ability to serve them. Estimates of the Company’s income tax liabilities are subject to various uncertainties and actual results could vary significantly from these estimates. When financial statements are prepared, CDI estimates its income tax liabilities with respect to the various jurisdictions in which the Company does business. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income tax liabilities in the financial statements and in forecasting CDI’s effective income tax rate in a given period. The provision for income taxes and tax liability in the future could be materially and adversely affected by numerous factors, including changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and audits by taxing authorities. Future acquisitions may not be successful. The Company may selectively pursue acquisitions as an element of its growth strategy, but it can not provide assurances that it will be able to locate suitable acquisitions or that it will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company, or that such transactions will be successful. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from its existing operations, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements, the potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business, and the inability to successfully integrate the business. There can be no assurance that any future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings. The Company relies on information systems in its operations. Failure to protect these systems against security breaches could materially and adversely affect CDI’s business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, the Company’s business could be harmed. The efficient operation of CDI’s business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The Company relies on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on its information systems. However, these measures and technology may not always be adequate to properly prevent security breaches. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt CDI’s business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing the Company’s business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of CDI’s information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Improper disclosure of employee and customer data could result in liabilities and harm the Company’s reputation. The Company’s business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about its employees, candidates, customers and franchisees. The protection of such information, as well as CDI data, is critical to the Company. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. The Company has established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. The Company also, from time to time, exports sensitive customer data and technical information to recipients outside the US. The Company has a policy in place that requires an analysis prior to the export of any products, 13 Table of Contents software, data, technology or other information from the Company’s systems to determine if any restrictions apply to the export. It is possible that the Company’s security controls over personal and customer data and other practices that the Company follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable and customer information. Such disclosure could harm the Company’s reputation and subject the Company to liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal and customer data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A charge for impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported results of operations. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, the Company is required to test the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets carried on its consolidated balance sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. As of December 31, 2009, CDI had $60.9 million of goodwill and other intangible assets, representing 16.2% of the Company’s total assets of $375.0 million. CDI has chosen to perform its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing by reporting unit as of July 1 of each fiscal year. The Company also is required to test for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce CDI’s enterprise fair value below its book value. If the fair value of CDI’s reporting units were to be less than their book value, the Company could be required to record a non-cash impairment charge. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on CDI’s financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. The Company performs certain projects through joint ventures. Participation in joint ventures exposes the Company to additional risks and uncertainties. As is common in the industry, CDI executes certain projects jointly with other contractors through joint ventures. These arrangements expose the Company to a number of risks, including the risk that CDI’s partners may not be able to fulfill their performance obligations under the joint venture agreements and related customer contracts. There is also a risk that CDI’s joint venture partners may be incapable of providing the required financial support to the joint ventures. Another risk is that improper, illegal or unethical actions by our joint venture partner would have a negative impact on the reputation of the joint venture and CDI. Disputes can arise not only between the Company and its joint venture partners, but also between the joint ventures and the customers. CDI relies on outside suppliers to perform certain administrative services. CDI outsources certain administrative and back office functions to companies that specialize in performing those services. The failure of such outside service providers to adequately perform such services could have a material adverse effect on CDI’s business and operations. If CDI fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for CDI to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its operating results could be harmed. CDI devotes significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could affect CDI’s operating results or cause it to fail to meet reporting obligations in future periods. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of CDI stock. The Company may not be able to obtain the insurance coverages necessary to manage its risks. The Company relies on insurance to help manage its risks and to limit the Company’s exposure to significant claims. The future availability and cost of such insurance is subject to market forces and CDI’s claims experience. There can be no assurance that the Company can always obtain and maintain appropriate insurance coverage, including errors and omissions insurance, in order to effectively manage the risks of its business. In addition, the Company has elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs. As a result, CDI may be subject to future liability for which the Company is only partially insured, or completely uninsured. CDI’s insurers are subject to business risk. One or more of our insurers may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. To the extent CDI is not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted, which impact could be material. A significant portion of the Company’s common stock is owned by related parties, and they could vote their shares in a way that is adverse to the interests of other shareholders. Certain of CDI’s directors and trusts, for which some of the Company’s directors serve as trustee, own a substantial portion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. By virtue of this 14 Table of Contents stock ownership, such shareholders have the power to significantly influence CDI’s affairs and are able to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the amendment of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws. Such shareholders could exercise influence over the Company in a manner adverse to the interests of CDI’s other shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 