ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have affected, or may in the future affect, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. HOME BUILDING The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn; further deterioration in industry conditions generally or in the markets where we operate could decrease demand and pricing for new homes and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in regional and national economic conditions such as job growth, housing demand, housing supply, availability of financing for homebuyers, interest rates and 9 Table of Contents consumer confidence. At the present time, the U.S. homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn. We believe this market downturn is primarily attributable to a decline in consumer confidence leading to an overall reduced demand for new homes and resulting in an excess supply of homes available for sale. We believe the reduction in demand is in turn due to decreased affordability of homes in certain of our markets, as well as the concerns of prospective homebuyers about the stability of home prices and their ability to sell their existing homes. In addition, in many cases, speculative buyers have withdrawn from the market and are no longer helping to fuel demand. Conditions in the U.S. housing markets had a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations during fiscal year 2007. For example, we experienced significant declines in closings, sales orders and backlog during fiscal year 2007. We also experienced significant declines in revenues and profit margins in fiscal year 2007, and our homebuilding operations generated losses from operations in the last two quarters of the fiscal year. We expect that the industry conditions described above are likely to continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, at least in the near term. Any further adverse changes in any of these conditions on a national level, or in the markets where we operate, could continue to decrease demand and pricing for our homes or cause customers who have entered into purchase contracts for our homes to fail to perform their obligations, which could adversely affect the number of home closings we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes. Any further adverse changes in these conditions could also result in a decreased value for the land, housing inventory and housing work-in-progress that we own. Any further adverse changes, if they occur, are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues or earnings. The market value of land may fluctuate significantly, which can result in significant decreases in the value of our developed and undeveloped land holdings. The risk of owning developed and undeveloped land can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions, such as the adverse conditions we are currently experiencing. During the year ended March 31, 2007, we also determined it was probable we would not pursue development and construction in certain areas where we had made land option deposits, which resulted in significant write-offs of land option deposits and pre-acquisition costs. In addition, during the year ended March 31, 2007, we recorded land valuation adjustments, or impairments, to land under development primarily due to challenging market conditions and, to a lesser extent, cost overruns in land development budgets. These write-offs and impairments adversely affected our operating earnings and operating margins during the year ended March 31, 2007. If market conditions deteriorate further in future periods, we may decide not to pursue development and construction in additional areas, and the value of existing land holdings may continue to decline, which would lead to further write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and further land impairments. Continued cancellations of existing sales contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet closed the home. We have received a customer deposit for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to compel the customer to complete the purchase. In many cases, however, a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as his or her inability to obtain mortgage financing or to sell his or her current home. Customers may also decide to run the risk of failing to perform under the contract without legal justification. If the current industry downturn continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more homebuyers may cancel their contracts with us. Significant cancellations have had, and could have in the future, a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could make it more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes. Most of our homebuilding customers finance their home purchases through our Financial Services operations or, in some cases, third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates or by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of increased credit standards, deteriorating customer credit quality or other factors. Interest rates have been at relatively low levels for several years. Any future increases in interest rates could cause potential homebuyers to be less willing or able to purchase our homes. In general, if mortgage rates increase, it could become more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Competition for homebuyers could reduce our closings or decrease our profitability. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with many national, regional and local homebuilders. In recent years, national homebuilders have been able to compete more effectively and increase their share of the national homebuilding market. Increasing levels of competition from other national homebuilders or from regional and local homebuilders in the markets in which we operate could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, homes offered by investors and housing speculators and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the markets where we operate could decrease demand for new homes, cause us to increase our sales incentives or price discounts in order to maintain sales volumes, increase the volatility of the market for new homes or lead to cancellations of sales contracts in backlog, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. The lag between when we acquire land and when we sell homes in our neighborhoods can make our operations susceptible to the effects of rapid changes in market conditions. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. The market value of home inventories, undeveloped land and developed home sites can fluctuate significantly during this time period because of changing market conditions. If the market value of home inventories or other property decline during this period, we may need to sell homes or other property at a loss or at prices that generate lower margins than we anticipated when we acquired the land. In certain situations, to the extent projected sales prices do not exceed the carrying value of the related assets, or if other market conditions deteriorate, we may be required to record an impairment of our land or home inventories. In addition, inventory carrying costs for land can be significant and can result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing project or market. We may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could limit our ability to expand our homebuilding operations and increase our costs. Our ability to expand our homebuilding operations depends upon our ability to acquire land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices and in locations where we want to build. Over the past decade, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in certain of our markets. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices in certain specific markets could limit our ability to develop new neighborhoods or result in increased land acquisition costs. There can be no assurance that, if we experience increased land acquisition costs, we will be able to pass these costs through to our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. Government entities have adopted or may adopt slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our operations. Some municipalities in markets where we operate have approved, and others may approve, slow growth or no growth homebuilding regulations or laws that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to build and sell homes in the affected markets or could require that we satisfy additional administrative and regulatory requirements, which could slow the progress or increase the costs of our homebuilding operations in these markets. Any such delays or costs could have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could delay closings or increase costs to build new homes in affected areas. The occurrence of natural disasters or adverse weather conditions in the markets in which we operate can delay new home closings, increase costs by damaging inventories of homes and construction materials, reduce the availability of raw materials and skilled labor, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. In addition, when natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires affect an area in which we build, or one nearby, there can be a diversion of labor and materials in the area from new home construction to the rebuilding of the existing homes damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster. This can cause delays in construction and closing of new homes and/or increase our construction costs. Furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover 11 Table of Contents business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. Supply or labor shortages and other risks related to the demand for building materials and skilled labor could delay closings and affect our results of operations. Our ability to conduct and expand our homebuilding operations is dependent on continued access to building materials and skilled labor. Shortages of building materials or skilled labor could delay closings of our homes, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, increased costs or shortages of building materials such as concrete, wood, roofing materials, gypsum, insulation and plumbing and electrical components could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Labor disputes or increased costs or shortages of skilled labor, such as carpenters, plumbers and electricians, could also cause increases in costs and delays. We estimate and forecast construction costs as part of our business, and attempt to plan for possible cost increases due to changes in the cost or availability of materials and labor. However, generally we are unable to pass on unanticipated increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. In general, significant unexpected increases in costs of materials or labor may adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with regulatory requirements affecting our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding activity. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, warranties, storm water pollution prevention and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning safety and the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given neighborhood vary greatly according to the neighborhood site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials, such as extra insulation or double-paned windows, and make commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We and the contractors that we engage to work on our jobsites are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety, wage and hour practices and immigration. We generally are required to obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. Such permits and approvals may from time to time be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, or the obligation of our independent contractors to comply with these and other laws and regulations, could result in delays in land development and homebuilding activity, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction. It is possible that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers and homebuilders in the future. Although we cannot predict with any certainty either the nature of the requirements or the effect on our business, they could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs and in substantial expenditures, which could cause delays and increase our cost of operations. The additional costs associated with new regulatory requirements or compliance programs may not be recoverable from our homebuyers in the form of higher sales prices, reducing our profitability. We may incur increased costs related to repairing construction defects in the homes we sell. Our Home Building operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to construction defects and other construction-related issues, including compliance with building codes. The costs we incur to resolve those warranty and other claims reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the home building industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from 12 Table of Contents time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. FINANCIAL SERVICES General business, economic and market conditions may significantly affect the earnings of our Financial Services operations. Our Financial Services operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our Financial Services business could be adversely affected. Also, because Financial Services focuses on providing services to customers who are considering the purchase of a home from Home Building or third parties, reduced home sales will likely also impact Financial Services’ business in the form of reduced home loans, title services and insurance services. In addition, our Financial Services business is significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies influence the size of the mortgage origination market. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and can have a material effect on the results of operations of our Financial Services segment. The mortgage financing industry is highly competitive. Our Financial Services business operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Competition for mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks, mortgage companies and savings and other financial institutions. We face competition in such areas as mortgage product offerings, rates and fees, and customer service. In addition, technological advances such as developments in e-commerce activities have increased consumers’ accessibility to products and services generally. This has intensified competition among banking as well as nonbanking companies in offering mortgage loans and similar financial products and services. Changes in lending laws could hurt our Financial Services operations. Our Financial Services operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect loan origination. These include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. They may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. These may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. The volatility of our Financial Services operations due to refinancing activity could negatively impact operations. A decline in mortgage rates generally increases the demand for home loans as borrowers refinance. An increase in mortgage rates generally results in a decrease in the demand for home loans and a corresponding decrease in the level of refinancing activity. If mortgage rates increase, they could negatively affect our volume of refinanced home loans and our results of operations. FACTORS AFFECTING MULTIPLE BUSINESS SEGMENTS Market conditions in the sub-prime lending industry have worsened significantly, which could cause lenders to tighten qualifications for mortgages and reduce the availability of credit for some purchasers of our homes and reduce the population of potential mortgage customers. In spring 2007, the mortgage markets experienced increased default levels at a number of lenders holding “sub-prime mortgages” as a result of the downturn in the housing market and other conditions. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties have questioned the adequacy of loan documentation and credit requirements for the loan programs these borrowers accessed. This event created a broader 13 Table of Contents mortgage market disruption that will likely delay any general improvement in of the housing market. Among other things, perceived deterioration in credit quality among sub-prime borrowers has caused lenders to tighten their underwriting requirements for sub-prime and other mortgage loans in order to mitigate their credit risks. Tighter loan qualifications in turn make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. These developments caused, and may continue to cause, a reduction in the number of available mortgage loan programs and an increase in foreclosed homes in the market. These developments may also cause a more long-term increase in credit quality requirements, including higher down payment requirements that may reduce mortgage loan demand or home demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our income tax provision and other tax reserves may be insufficient if any taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and for our reserves for federal, state, local and other taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there may be matters for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefits, or other tax reserves, in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding tax matters. We fully cooperate with all audits. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. As each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. To provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain reserves for tax contingencies based on reasonable estimates of our potential exposure with respect to the tax liabilities that may result from such audits. However, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of any audit process, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. New federal laws that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The Government-sponsored enterprises, principally FNMA and FHLMC, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and packaging them into investment securities that they either sell to investors or hold in their portfolios. Recent federal laws and proposed legislation could have the effect of curtailing the activities of FNMA and FHLMC. These organizations provide liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any restriction or curtailment of their activities could affect the ability of our customers to obtain mortgage loans or increase mortgage interest rates, which could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by a change in our credit rating or a disruption in the capital markets. Our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. At the present time, our access to capital is enhanced by the fact that our senior debt securities have an investment-grade credit rating from each of the principal credit rating agencies. If we were to lose our investment-grade credit rating for any reason, it may become more difficult and costly for us to access the capital that is required in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. In addition, a long-term or serious disruption in the capital markets could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to raise capital for use in our business, for our customers to obtain home loans or for us to sell loans originated by our Financial Services segment. Further, a reduction of the positive spread between the rate at which we can borrow and the rate at which we can lend could hurt our ability to profit from our loan origination businesses. Reductions in tax benefits could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, the after-tax costs of owning a new home would increase for the typical homeowner. If such tax law changes were enacted without other offsetting provisions or 14 Table of Contents effects, they could adversely impact the demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes, mortgage loans and home equity loans, and our operations might be negatively affected. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes various forward-looking statements, which are not facts or guarantees of future performance and which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Certain information included in this Report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. Such statements include information related to anticipated operating results, financial resources, changes in interest rates, changes in revenues, changes in profitability, interest expense, growth and expansion, anticipated income to be realized by our investment in unconsolidated entities, the ability to acquire land, the ability to gain approvals and to open new neighborhoods, the ability to sell homes and properties, the ability to deliver homes from backlog, the ability to secure materials and contractors, the ability to produce the liquidity and capital necessary to expand and take advantage of opportunities in the future, the completion of and effects from planned transactions and stock market valuations. From time to time, forward-looking statements also are included in our other periodic reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, press releases and presentations, on our web site and in other material released to the public. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead represent only our beliefs at the time the statements were made regarding future events, which are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control and certain of which are listed above. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this Report and in any other reports or public statements made by us may turn out to be materially inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the risks and uncertainties mentioned in this Report or another report or public statement made by us, such as those discussed in these risk factors, will be important in determining whether these forward-looking statements prove to be accurate. Consequently, neither our stockholders nor any other person should place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements and should recognize that actual results may differ materially from those that may be anticipated by us. All forward-looking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this Report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. However, we may make further disclosures regarding future events, trends and uncertainties in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K to the extent required under the Exchange Act. The above cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business include factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed above, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 