ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have affected, or may in the future affect, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. HOMEBUILDING MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKS The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn; this downturn has had a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and is expected to continue through fiscal year 2010. Beginning in fiscal year 2006, the U.S. housing industry began to experience a significant downturn, which directly affected and continues to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe the principal factors that have caused or are sustaining this downturn include each of the following: ● current economic conditions, including disruptions in the broader financial and credit markets and the current national economic recession, as evidenced by, among other things, high unemployment rates, which were 8.5% in March 2009, a level last seen in 1983, ● declining homebuyer demand due to lower consumer confidence and an inability of many homebuyers to sell their existing homes, ● elevated levels of new and existing homes for sale, including the impact of increases in residential foreclosures, which are expected to continue for the foreseeable future, ● reduced availability and stricter terms of mortgage financing due to the significant mortgage market disruptions, and tightened credit standards for homebuyers, and ● pricing pressures resulting from a variety of factors, including the decision of homebuilders to offer significant discounts and sales incentives to liquidate unsold inventories of new homes. 9 Table of Contents These conditions led to, among other things, (i) substantial decreases in our homebuilding revenues, (ii) significant land-related impairments, (iii) joint ventures’ impairments, (iv) goodwill impairments, and (v) write-offs of land deposits and pre-acquisition costs. As a result, our homebuilding operations incurred substantial losses and are likely to continue to do so. Any worsening of market conditions in the homebuilding industry would have a further material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The market value of land is subject to significant fluctuations, which have resulted in significant impairments and write-offs in our land holdings and may continue to do so. The risk of owning land can be substantial for homebuilders. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. Inventory carrying costs for land can be significant and can result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing project or market. In addition, the market value of land, finished lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions, including the availability of financing, such as the industry downturn we are currently experiencing. If the market value of home inventories, land/lots or other property decline during this period, we may need to sell homes or other property at a loss or at prices that generate lower margins than we anticipated when we acquired the land. To the extent projected sales prices do not exceed the carrying value of the related assets, or if other market conditions deteriorate, we may be required to record an impairment of our land or home inventories. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we decided not to pursue development and construction in certain areas where we held land or had made option deposits, which resulted in $46.6 million in write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized losses of $955.0 million on land sales, including land-related impairments on neighborhoods and land during the year ended March 31, 2009 of $882.6 million. Land-related impairments during the quarter ended March 31, 2009 affected 81 neighborhoods and land investments, some of which have been impaired more than once. These market conditions also adversely affected land values in our Home Building joint ventures. Our share of joint ventures’ impairments was $157.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2009. These land-related impairments contributed to the significant operating losses we incurred during the year ended March 31, 2009. If market conditions do not improve in future periods, we may experience additional write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs, losses on land sales, land-related impairments and impairments relating to our ownership interest in joint ventures. Additionally, our land-related impairment analyses are affected by market conditions and certain assumptions, such as sales prices, sales rates and discount rates used, and relatively small changes in these assumptions could lead to significant land-related impairments. Levels of volatility in the capital and credit markets during the year ended March 31, 2009 were unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In some cases, the markets have exerted significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain companies which, in some cases, has led these companies to seek bankruptcy protection or to be merged with or sold to stronger market participants. Although we maintain a committed multi-bank revolving credit facility for cash borrowings and letters of credit and bank-committed warehouse lines of credit for our mortgage lending operations, if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may be unable to amend or renew these agreements on acceptable terms upon their expiration or maturity. In addition, if we fail to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in our credit facilities, we may be obliged to seek a waiver of, or amendment to, our credit facilities from our lenders. In light of the disruptions in credit markets, our lenders may not be willing to grant such a waiver, or may require the payment of significant fees or changes in the terms of our credit agreements as a condition to doing so. A long-term or further disruption in the mortgage finance or capital markets could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to raise capital for use in our business, for our customers to obtain home loans or for us to sell loans originated by our Financial Services operations. Further, a reduction of the positive spread between the rate at which we can borrow and the rate at which we can lend could hurt our ability to profit from our loan origination business. Continued cancellations of home sales contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet closed the home. We have received a customer deposit for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to compel the customer to complete the purchase. In many cases, however, a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as his or her 10 Table of Contents inability to obtain mortgage financing or to sell his or her current home. Customers may also decide to run the risk of failing to perform under the contract without legal justification. If the current industry downturn continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available, more homebuyers may cancel their contracts with us. Significant cancellations have had, and could have in the future, a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further decreases in demand for our homes may have an adverse effect on our Financial Services segment. Substantially all of the mortgage loans originated by Financial Services are from the sale of homes we build. Further declines in the sale of our homes would have a direct effect on the origination volume of Financial Services. In July 2008, Financial Services made the decision to cease the origination of Retail loans (or loans for the sale of homes not built by us) and the wind-down of such Retail loan origination was completed as of March 31, 2009. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them. Under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. That makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land. In addition, we are generally not able to pass on increases in materials and labor to customers who have already entered into home purchase contracts, as the price is generally fixed at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the commencement of construction. OPERATIONAL RISKS We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which is scheduled to mature in future installments and may need to be refinanced or restructured. We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which consists principally of senior unsecured notes issued from time to time in the public debt markets. The principal amount of our outstanding senior notes currently exceeds $3.10 billion, which mature at various dates through May 2016. Scheduled maturities for fiscal years ending March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 are $210.9 million, $692.5 million and $324.4 million, respectively. At March 31, 2009, our unrestricted cash balance was $1.36 billion, which provides sufficient liquidity to satisfy our obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, we expect we will need to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our outstanding debt at maturity or otherwise be able to retire, refinance or restructure such debt. We are taking steps to improve our cash flow and strengthen our balance sheet, but our ability to refinance our debt is limited by, among other things, the current downturn in the homebuilding industry and recent disruptions in the credit markets and resulting tightening of credit standards, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve before the relevant maturity dates. Accordingly, we will consider various alternative transactions that would permit us to reduce our outstanding debt and manage the outstanding amounts and terms of our debt so that they do not interfere with our business plans and strategies. We could be adversely affected by a change in our current credit rating. Our ability to sustain or grow our business and to operate in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital. We use capital principally to finance operations, purchase and develop land, construct houses and originate mortgage loans. We also use our banking and credit relationships to arrange for the issuances of letters of credit and surety bonds. Until 2007, our access to capital was enhanced by the fact that our senior debt securities had an investment-grade credit rating from each of the principal credit rating agencies, and we were able to issue commercial paper. We lost our investment grade ratings during our fiscal year 2008, and since then the rating of our senior debt has been lowered further. Our long-term debt ratings are currently BB-, Ba3 and BB from Standard & Poor’s, or S&P, Moody’s Investors Services, or Moody’s and Fitch Ratings, or Fitch, respectively. As a result of our current rating, we do not have access to many financing strategies that are available to companies with investment grade ratings. In addition, our multi-bank credit facility includes a borrowing base limitation when we do not have an investment grade senior unsecured debt rating from at least two of the three rating agencies named above. We currently do not have investment grade ratings, and we are therefore subject to the borrowing base limitation. As a consequence, it may become more difficult and costly for us to access the capital that is required in order to implement our business plans and operate our business. Although we currently have a substantial cash balance, we are currently required to use a significant portion of these funds to provide a liquidity reserve under our multi-bank revolving credit 11 Table of Contents facility. CTX Mortgage Company, LLC also uses committed bank warehouse credit facilities for its funding needs. We may experience a further downgrade in our credit rating by the rating agencies that would likely result in increased costs for certain of our financing and also further restrict our ability to finance mortgage loan originations. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. We are required to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants in our multi-bank revolving credit facility. Material covenants include a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum tangible net worth requirement and a borrowing base limiting the amount of available borrowings. There can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenants in our multi-bank revolving credit facility, and depending on our future results of operations, we may need to seek waivers or amendments from our lenders in future periods. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our lenders will agree to such waivers or amendments on terms we regard as satisfactory. In addition, our committed bank warehouse credit facilities and loan agreements relating to certain of our joint ventures contain various affirmative and negative covenants and guarantees requested by lenders for facilities of these types. In order to continue to borrow funds under these facilities, we will need to continue to be in compliance with these covenants and guarantees. In general, with respect to our multi-bank revolving credit facility, bank warehouse credit facilities and loan agreements relating to certain of our joint ventures, if we fail to comply with any of the covenants or guarantees contained therein, which may occur if we experience additional asset impairments or incur additional net losses, we may be unable to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, letters of credit, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements, or the credit providers could cause our debt to become immediately due and payable, or we may be required to make certain payments in connection with our joint venture indebtedness. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries worsened significantly in fiscal year 2009, which adversely affected the availability of credit for some purchasers of our homes, reduced the population of potential mortgage customers and reduced mortgage liquidity. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further reduced mortgage liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our homebuilding and mortgage lending operations and their respective results of operations. Beginning in fiscal year 2008 and continuing through fiscal year 2009, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant disruptions due to, among other things, defaults on a variety of nonconforming loan products and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of loan documentation and credit requirements for certain types of loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit underwriting requirements, reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums. Among other things, deterioration in credit quality among nonconforming loan borrowers has caused almost all lenders to eliminate most loan products that are not conforming loans, FHA/VA-eligible loans or jumbo loans meeting conforming underwriting guidelines except as to the size of the loan. In general, fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. These developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes that we sell and in the demand for the mortgage loans that we originate. These developments have had and are expected to continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The adverse market conditions in the mortgage lending industry described above have affected our business in a number of respects. For example, CTX Mortgage Company, LLC has essentially ceased originating sub-prime or other nonconforming loans. Furthermore, for various reasons, including the reduction in available mortgage loan liquidity, CTX Mortgage Company, LLC decided in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 to discontinue the origination of new construction loans. In the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2008, CTX Mortgage Company, LLC ceased selling loans to HSF-I, which had been the principal financing vehicle for its operations, and terminated this financing vehicle. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, Financial Services ceased the origination of Retail loans. Further tightening of the mortgage lending markets in the form of reduced numbers or types of loan products, or tighter loan qualification requirements (including credit score and down payment requirements), could further reduce the demand for our homes or the mortgages we originate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, further disruptions or other adverse conditions in the mortgage finance markets leading to further reduced mortgage liquidity or decreased demand for mortgage loans could result in an 12 Table of Contents inability to sell or finance the loans we originate, or less favorable terms of sale or reduced yield or greater reserves pending sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Further decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or other adverse changes in market conditions could make it more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes. Most of our homebuilding customers finance their home purchases through our Financial Services operations or, in some cases, third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates or by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of increased credit standards, deteriorating customer credit quality or disruptions or other adverse conditions in mortgage lending markets. Beginning in fiscal year 2008 and continuing through fiscal year 2009, the mortgage markets experienced significant disruptions, which led to an unprecedented combination of reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements for homebuyers and increased credit risk premiums. Any further tightening of credit standards or increases in interest rates could cause potential homebuyers to be less willing or able to purchase our homes. Although mortgage interest rates have declined in recent months, any future increase in mortgage rates could make it more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Reductions in tax benefits could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, the after-tax costs of owning a new home would increase for the typical homeowner. If such tax law changes were enacted without other offsetting provisions or effects, they could adversely impact the demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes, mortgage loans and home equity loans, and our operations might be negatively affected. We may incur increased costs related to repairing construction defects in the homes we sell. Our Home Building operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to construction defects and other construction-related issues, including compliance with building codes. The costs we incur to resolve those warranty and other claims reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. Competition for homebuyers could reduce our closings or decrease our profitability. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with many national, regional and local homebuilders. In recent years, national homebuilders have been able to compete more effectively and increase their share of the national homebuilding market. The current downturn in the homebuilding industry has significantly increased competition among homebuilders, as evidenced by price reductions, increases in discounts and sales incentives and increased sales commissions in an effort to stimulate sales. Any further increases in the level of incentives from other national homebuilders or from regional and local homebuilders in the markets in which we operate could reduce the number of homes we close, or cause us to accept reduced margins or losses on home sales. We also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, homes offered by investors and housing speculators and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the markets where we operate could decrease demand for new homes, cause us to increase our sales incentives or price discounts in order to maintain sales volumes, increase the volatility of the market for new homes or lead to cancellations of sales contracts in backlog, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Our income tax provision and other tax reserves may be insufficient if any taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and for our reserves for federal, state, local and other taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there may be matters for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax 13 Table of Contents provision or benefits, or other tax reserves, in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations for such period. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding tax matters. We fully cooperate with all audits. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. As each stage in the audit process is concluded, we record appropriate adjustments, if any, in our financial statements in the period determined. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – An Interpretation of FASB No. 109,” which we refer to as FIN 48, we maintain reserves to provide for potential tax exposures relating to uncertain tax positions (including interest and penalties, when applicable) that may result from audits. However, if the results of any audit materially differ from the reserve, there would be a corresponding impact on our financial position and results of operations. We may not realize our net deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2009, we had net deferred tax assets of $1.29 billion for which a $1.29 billion valuation allowance has been established. The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon a variety of factors, including taxable income in prior carryback years, estimates of future taxable income, tax planning strategies and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. The FASB provides in SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” or SFAS 109 that a cumulative loss in recent years is significant negative evidence in considering whether deferred tax assets are realizable. Based on our assessment, the realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income and, accordingly, we have established a full valuation allowance. The valuation allowance may increase or decrease as conditions change and/or if new tax laws are enacted, such as changes to net operating loss carryback and carryforward rules, which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to utilize net operating losses (NOLs), built-in losses (BILs) and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which we refer to as the Code. In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by “5-percent shareholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such “5-percent shareholders” at any time over the preceding three years. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code would establish an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs or BILs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single taxable year to an amount equal to (i) the product of a specified rate (which is published monthly and is 4.61% for May 2009) and the aggregate value of our outstanding stock plus (ii) the amount of unutilized limitation from prior years. In such a case, a corresponding limitation would also apply to the amount of tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxes in any single taxable year. The application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our NOLs, BILs, and tax credit carryforwards. Based on an analysis that we performed as of March 31, 2009, we do not believe we have experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 and, therefore, we do not believe, at March 31, 2009, the NOLs, BILs and tax credit carryforwards are subject to any Section 382 limitation. However, if the merger with Pulte is completed, we will experience an ownership change, and the combined company’s ability to realize Centex’s deferred income tax assets will be limited. We conduct certain of our homebuilding operations through joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a majority interest, and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We conduct a portion of our land acquisition, development and other activities through our participation in joint ventures in which we hold less than a majority interest. These land-related activities typically require substantial capital, and by partnering with other homebuilders or developers and, to a lesser extent, financial partners, Home Building is able to share the risks and rewards of ownership and obtain other strategic advantages. Total joint venture debt outstanding as of March 31, 2009 and 2008 was $270.3 million and $423.2 million, respectively. Debt agreements for joint ventures with recourse to us vary by lender in terms of structure and level of recourse. For joint ventures, we are liable on a contingent basis, through guarantees, letters of credit or other arrangements, with respect to a portion of the construction debt. Additionally, we have agreed to indemnify the lender 14 Table of Contents for certain environmental liabilities in the case of most joint ventures and most guarantee arrangements provide that we are liable for our proportionate share of the outstanding debt if the joint venture files for voluntary bankruptcy. We have recorded obligations pursuant to our share of certain completion and repayment guarantees. Six of our joint ventures are in default of their joint venture debt agreements. We are in discussions with the joint venture partners and lenders with respect to each joint venture. We expect to fulfill our contractual obligations under the joint venture agreements. Costs associated with fulfilling such contractual obligations may be less than our share of the joint ventures’ debt. Recourse under joint venture debt agreements is limited to either the underlying collateral or completion obligations of the joint venture partners. Based upon the terms and debt amounts outstanding for these joint ventures and the terms of the joint venture agreements, we do not believe our exposure related to these joint venture defaults in excess of amounts already accrued will be material to our financial position or results of operations. In general, we are subject to various risks of the type described above related to joint venture debt, construction debt and other obligations and liabilities of the joint ventures in which we participate, and these debts, liabilities and obligations may in some cases be material. In the case of many joint ventures, we have the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts that we pay that exceed our pro rata share of the joint ventures’ obligations. However, particularly if our joint venture partners have filed for bankruptcy protection or are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. In addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that the joint venture sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. As a result, without the consent of one or more joint venture partners, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. If we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue, and we could be adversely affected if we are required to post additional collateral in respect of bonds issued in connection with past construction projects. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Under certain circumstances, such as a claim on a bond, a breach of the contract to which the bond applies, or a material breach of a representation made to a surety, we may be required to provide one or more sureties with additional collateral to support our bond obligations. In addition, in some cases, upon request of a surety, we may be required to cause the surety to be discharged from all bond obligations by providing collateral sufficient to cover all of such surety’s bond exposure or alternative funding of such bond obligations. If one or more of our third-party sureties were to request additional collateral, our obligations could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We may be subject to claims and liabilities in connection with sales of assets or discontinued businesses. Over the past several fiscal years, we have completed the sale of our international homebuilding operations, Home Equity, Construction Services, our home services operations and our property and casualty insurance agency operations in separate transactions to unrelated third parties. In connection with each of these transactions, we made representations and warranties to the purchasers of the applicable businesses or assets, agreed to retain responsibility for certain actual or contingent liabilities and agreed to indemnify the purchasers against breaches of representations and warranties and other liabilities. In addition, certain of the businesses we sold had bonds or letters of credit outstanding at the date of sale, which were assumed by the purchasers, but for which we retain responsibility under indemnities or other direct contractual relationships with the sureties issuing the bonds or letters of credit. To date, we have not incurred any material losses in respect of claims asserted by the purchasers in connection with these transactions or claims asserted by sureties in respect of outstanding bonds or letters of credit. In addition, our liability to the purchasers is subject to certain limitations, including limitations on the time period during which claims may be asserted and the amounts for which we are liable. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur future liabilities to the purchasers in connection with these transactions or the sureties issuing any bonds or letters of credit or that the amount of such liabilities will not be material. 15 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR PROPOSED MERGER WITH PULTE Failure to complete our proposed merger with Pulte could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If our proposed merger with Pulte is not completed, our stock price and our future business and financial results may be adversely affected and become subject to several risks, including the following: ● If the merger is terminated, we may be required in specified circumstances to pay a termination fee of $24 million or $48 million to Pulte, which may result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we expect to incur significant costs associated with negotiation of the merger agreement and seeking stockholder approval. If the transaction is not completed, we will not be able to recover these costs. ● The fact that the transaction was not completed may be viewed negatively by investors, suppliers, contractors and customers, which may cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock or demand for our products, and may harm our ability to do business. ● Our stock price could be adversely affected if the transaction is not completed since the current price reflects a premium as a result of the pending transaction. Our competitive position could suffer as a result of the pending transaction with Pulte. As a result of the pending merger transaction with Pulte, our competitive position could suffer as a result of any one or more of the following: ● We could lose key management personnel who may be experiencing uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. Additionally, as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms such as equity awards to such key personnel have diminished in value. ● Our employees may become distracted during the period between the announcement of the transaction and the special meeting to approve the transaction, and may not perform at their customary high level. ● Restrictions in the merger agreement on solicitation prohibit us from soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a merger or business combination with any other party, including a proposal that might be advantageous to our stockholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the merger. These provisions may deter third parties from proposing or pursuing alternative business combinations with us that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the transaction. ● Our suppliers and contractors may question our commitment or ability to continue operations in the homebuilding industry and may not be willing to perform services or deliver supplies on as favorable terms or they may cease or significantly reduce doing business with us. ● Our customers may question our commitment or ability to complete construction of new homes or the availability of construction defect and other warranty coverage and may be less likely to purchase a new home from us. REGULATORY RISKS Compliance with regulatory requirements affecting our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding activity. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, warranties, storm water pollution prevention and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning safety and the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given neighborhood vary greatly according to the neighborhood site, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials, such as extra insulation or double-paned windows, and make commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We and the contractors that we engage to work on our jobsites are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety, wage and hour practices and immigration. We generally are required to obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. Such permits and approvals may from time to time be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, or the obligation of our independent 16 Table of Contents contractors to comply with these and other laws and regulations, could result in delays in land development and homebuilding activity, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction. It is possible that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers and homebuilders in the future. Although we cannot predict with any certainty either the nature of the requirements or the effect on our business, they could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs and in substantial expenditures, which could cause delays and increase our cost of operations. The additional costs associated with new regulatory requirements or compliance programs may not be recoverable from our homebuyers in the form of higher sales prices which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in lending laws could hurt our Financial Services operations. Our Financial Services operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect loan origination. These include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. They may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. These may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. On November 17, 2008, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) issued final regulations implementing various proposed changes to the federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA). Among the changes was a revised definition of ‘required use’ that would prohibit homebuilders from providing financial incentives to their homebuyers that are conditioned upon the homebuyers’ use of affiliated mortgage companies or other settlement service providers. These regulations were to take effect on January 16, 2009, and would have required a significant restructuring of Home Building’s and Financial Services’ business practices in order to comply. Specifically, financial incentives for a homebuyer’s use of CTX Mortgage Company, LLC could only be offered directly to the homebuyer by CTX Mortgage Company, LLC in lieu of our current practice for Home Building to offer financial incentives to homebuyers that are conditioned on the use of CTX Mortgage Company, LLC. On December 22, 2008, the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and certain of its members and affiliated companies filed suit against HUD challenging the proposed rule and seeking to enjoin enforcement of the regulation. In response, HUD extended the effective date of the regulation to July 16, 2009. On May 12, 2009, HUD submitted a final rule to the Federal Register for publication that withdrew the proposed definition of ‘required use’ from the rule, although HUD noted in an accompanying press release that it intends to propose a revised definition of ‘required use’ in a new proposed rule at some future date. Changes in laws or other events that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The government-sponsored enterprises, principally FNMA and FHLMC, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and creating investment securities that they either sell to investors or hold in their portfolios. These organizations provide liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. FNMA and FHLMC experienced financial difficulties in 2008 and were place into conservatorship because their ability to raise capital had become limited and there was concern about global and domestic systemic risk should either of these government-sponsored enterprises fail. The Federal Housing Finance Authority is serving as conservator until the institutions have been returned to a safe and solvent condition. We cannot predict whether the current conservatorship of FNMA or FHLMC will succeed in returning these institutions to normal business operations, or that actions of the conservator or future regulatory changes will not result in a significant restructuring of their businesses. Any new federal laws or regulations that restrict or curtail their activities, any changes in their mortgage purchase programs, or any other events or conditions that prevent or restrict these enterprises from continuing their historic businesses, could affect the ability of our customers to obtain mortgage loans or could increase mortgage interest rates or credit standards, which could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations. OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK AND OTHER SECURITIES RISK Our share price will fluctuate. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past year. The market price and volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market 17 Table of Contents regarding our operations or business prospects. In addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: ● operating results that differ from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; ● factors influencing home purchases, such as availability of home mortgage loans and interest rates, credit criteria applicable to prospective borrowers, ability to sell existing residences and homebuyer sentiment in general; ● the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; ● announcements relating to the merger transaction with Pulte as well as other strategic developments and other material events by us or our competitors; and ● changes in global financial markets and global economics and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended and future dividends remain uncertain. On October 9, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors suspended our quarterly cash dividend. We will continue to weigh the alternatives for returning cash to stockholders as economic conditions improve. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes various forward-looking statements, which are not facts or guarantees of future performance and which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Certain information included in this Report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. Such statements include information related to anticipated operating results, financial resources, changes in interest rates and other developments and conditions in financing markets, changes in revenues, changes in profitability, interest expense, growth and expansion, our investment in unconsolidated entities, the ability to acquire land, the ability to gain approvals and to open new neighborhoods, the ability to sell homes and properties, the ability to deliver homes from backlog, the ability to secure materials and contractors, the ability to produce the liquidity and capital necessary for our business, the completion of and effects from planned transactions and stock market valuations. From time to time, forward-looking statements also are included in our other periodic reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, press releases and presentations, on our web site and in other material released to the public. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead represent only our beliefs at the time the statements were made regarding future events, which are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control and certain of which are listed above. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this Report and in any other reports or public statements made by us may turn out to be materially inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many of the risks and uncertainties mentioned in this Report or another report or public statement made by us, such as those discussed in the risk factors contained in this Item 1A, will be important in determining whether these forward-looking statements prove to be accurate. Consequently, neither our stockholders nor any other person should place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements and should recognize that actual results may differ materially from those anticipated by us. All forward-looking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this Report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. However, we may make further disclosures regarding future events, trends and uncertainties in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K to the extent required under the Exchange Act. The above cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business include factors we believe could cause our actual results to 18 Table of Contents differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed above, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 