RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The foregoing discussion of our business and operations should be read together with the risk factors set forth below, which describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this Report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. HOME BUILDING Deterioration in economic conditions generally or in the market regions where we operate could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas and adversely affect our business operations. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in regional and national economic conditions such as job growth, interest rates and consumer confidence. Material adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer defaults on pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. A material decline in the value of new residential housing could also result in a decreased value for the land, housing inventory and housing work-in-progress that we own. Any pronounced down cycle in the homebuilding industry could cause demand for our homes and land that we own to weaken significantly. Competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with many national, regional and local homebuilders. We also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential markets in which we operate or related markets could decrease demand for new homes, or cause us to increase our sales incentives or price discounts in order to maintain sales volume, and adversely affect our operating results. Government entities have adopted or may adopt slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. Some municipalities where we operate have approved, and others may approve, slow growth or no growth homebuilding regulations or laws that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to build (or 15 Table of Contents timely build) and sell homes in the affected markets and could create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could delay deliveries or increase costs to build new homes in affected areas. The occurrence of natural disasters or adverse weather conditions in the areas in which we operate can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories of homes and construction materials, reduce the availability of raw materials and skilled labor, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. When natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods and fires affect an area in which we build, or one nearby, there can be a diversion of labor and materials in the area from new home construction to the rebuilding of the existing homes damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster. This can cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes and/or increase our construction costs. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for building materials and skilled labor could reduce our profits and delay deliveries. Increased costs or shortages of building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Labor disputes, and increased costs or shortages of skilled labor, such as carpenters, plumbers and electricians, could also cause increases in costs and delays. We estimate and forecast construction costs as part of our business, and attempt to plan for possible cost increases due to changes in the cost or availability of materials and labor. However, generally we are unable to pass on unanticipated increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. We may experience unexpected increases in costs of materials or labor, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs to homebuyers, thereby decreasing our profits. These factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Compliance with regulations affecting our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding activity. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, warranties, storm water and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety, immigration and the protection of the environment. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. Such permits and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and the obligation of our subcontractors and other agents to comply with these and other laws and regulations, could result in delays in land development and homebuilding activity, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction. Foreign exchange rates and the demand for housing in the United Kingdom may affect our foreign operations. The results of operations of our international homebuilding operations are affected by fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar as compared to the British pound sterling, and can also be affected by economic, regulatory and competitive factors affecting the homebuilding market in the United Kingdom including the overall demand for housing. 16 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SERVICES Increases in interest rates could hurt our Financial Services operations. Our Financial Services operations are influenced by borrowers’ perceptions of and reactions to interest rates. The operations of CTX Mortgage Company, LLC and its related companies are particularly affected by increases in interest rates, as they are likely to result in a decrease in the volume of mortgage loan refinancing transactions, which are a significant component of our business. Although the volume of originations in our Home Equity operations is less sensitive to increases in interest rates than CTX Mortgage Company, LLC and its related companies, interest rate increases can result in decreased interest margins. Any significant increase in mortgage rates above current prevailing levels could adversely affect the volume of loan originations and reduce our revenues, operating margins and earnings. In addition, increased competition for loans from other lenders could reduce our profits on the loans we originate. Loan and collateral losses could reduce the profitability of our Home Equity operations. Our Home Equity operations involve holding residential mortgage loans for investment and establishing an allowance for credit losses on these loans. To a lesser extent, our operations also involve holding properties obtained through foreclosure pending resale and establishing an allowance for losses on these properties. Although the amount of these allowances reflects our judgment as to our present loss exposure on these loans and properties, there can be no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover any losses that may ultimately be incurred. Judgments as to loss exposure are subject to significant uncertainties, and the amount of the loss ultimately incurred may be determined by various factors outside our control. Decline in our ratings as a loan servicer could hurt our Financial Services operations. Our Home Equity operations involve the servicing of residential home equity mortgages. Our servicing activity is rated by the principal rating agencies and any serious decline in our ratings could adversely affect the profitability of our Home Equity operations. Changes in lending laws could hurt our Financial Services operations. Our Financial Services operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect loan origination. Our Home Equity operations and, to a lesser extent, the operations of CTX Mortgage Company, LLC and its related companies, are particularly affected by laws and regulations related to the extension of credit to individuals whose credit ratings do not qualify them for conventional mortgage financing. Changes in these laws or the way that they are enforced may adversely affect the way that we operate or our ability to profitably originate loans. CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Supply and labor shortages and other risks could increase costs and delay completion. Our Construction Services operations could be adversely affected by fluctuating prices and limited supplies of building materials, as well as the cost and availability of labor, particularly trades personnel. These prices and supplies may be further adversely affected by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions. These factors, like the factors identified for our Home Building operations, could cause increased costs and delays in construction that could have an adverse effect upon our Construction Services operations. We are subject to regional changes in the demand for commercial construction projects. Although national demand for commercial construction is relatively stable, individual markets experience greater cyclicality and can be sensitive to overall capital spending trends in the economy, changes in federal and state appropriations for construction projects, financing and capital availability for commercial real 17 Table of Contents estate and competitive pressures on the availability and pricing of construction projects. These factors can result in a reduction in the supply of suitable projects, increased competition and reduced margins on construction contracts. Our Construction Services operations are also subject to other risks and uncertainties, including the timing of new awards and the funding of such awards; cancellations of, or changes in the scope of, existing contracts; the ability to meet performance or schedule guarantees and cost overruns. FACTORS AFFECTING MULTIPLE BUSINESS SEGMENTS New federal laws that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The Government-sponsored enterprises, principally FNMA and FHLMC, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and packaging them into investment securities that they either sell to investors or hold in their portfolios. Proposed legislation, supported by the current administration, could have the effect of restricting or curtailing the activities of these enterprises. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. A restriction or curtailment of their activities could affect the ability of our customers to obtain mortgage loans or increase mortgage interest rates (and increase the effective cost of our homes), which could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by a change in our credit rating or a disruption in the capital markets. Our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to generate or obtain capital on favorable terms. At the present time, our access to capital is enhanced by the fact that our senior debt securities have an investment-grade credit rating from each of the principal credit rating agencies. If we were to lose our investment-grade credit rating for any reason, it would become more difficult and costly for us to generate or obtain the capital that is required in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. In addition, a long-term or serious disruption in the capital markets could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to raise capital for use in our business, for our customers to obtain home loans or for us to sell or securitize loans originated in our business. Further, a flat or inverted yield curve could hurt our ability to profit from our loan origination businesses. Increases in interest rates may reduce customer demand for homes that we sell and the loans that we offer. The majority of our homebuyers finance the purchase of their homes through mortgage loans. Increases in interest rates generally increase monthly payments for the same amount to be borrowed, thus making the homes we sell less affordable for potential customers. In addition, increases in interest rates may reduce the demand for new or refinanced mortgage loans offered by our Financial Services operations. Reduced home sales and loan originations may adversely affect our operating results. The reduction of tax benefits could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, the after-tax costs of owning a new home would increase for the typical homeowner. The resulting loss or limitation of homeowners’ tax deductions, if such tax law changes were enacted without other offsetting provisions, could adversely impact the demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes, mortgage loans and home equity loans, and our operations might be negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents We incur increased costs related to repairing construction defects in the homes we sell or the buildings we construct. Our Home Building and Construction Services operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to construction defects and other construction-related issues, including compliance with building codes. The costs we incur to resolve those warranty and other claims reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Anyone seeking information about our business operations and financial performance can receive copies of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C., without charge, by contacting our Corporate Communications office at (214) 981-6901; by writing to Centex Corporation, Investor Relations, P.O. Box 199000, Dallas, Texas 75219 or via email at ir@centex.com. In addition, all filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases and quarterly earnings announcements, including live audio and replays of recent quarterly earnings webcasts, can be accessed free of charge on our web site (www.centex.com). We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. To retrieve any of this information, go to www.centex.com, select “Investor Relations” and select “SEC Filings.” The reference to our web site is merely intended to suggest where additional information may be obtained by investors, and the materials and other information presented on our web site are not incorporated in and should not otherwise be considered part of this Report. 