Risk Factors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Unresolved Staff Comments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 10 12 12 12 12 PART II Item 5. Item 6. Item 7. Item 7A. Item 8. Item 9. Item 9A. Item 9B. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Controls and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Other Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 14 15 36 39 85 85 86 PART III Item 10. Item 11. Item 12. Item 13. Item 14. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . . . . . . . . Principal Accounting Fees and Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 87 87 87 87 PART IV Item 15. Schedule II Signatures Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 103 104 Page 1 of 104 CENTRAL VERMONT PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Statements contained in this report that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the 'safe-harbor' provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Whenever used in this report, the words "estimate," "expect," "believe," or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Actual results will depend upon, among other things: the actions of regulatory bodies with respect to allowed rates of return, continued recovery of regulatory assets and proposed alternative regulations; performance and continued operation of the Vermont Yankee nuclear power plant; effects of and changes in weather and economic conditions; volatility in wholesale power markets; ability to maintain or improve our current credit ratings; the operations of ISO-New England; changes in the cost or availability of capital; changes in financial or regulatory accounting principles or policies imposed by governing bodies; capital market conditions, including price risk due to marketable securities held as investments in trust for nuclear decommissioning, pension and postretirement medical plans; changes in the levels and timing of capital expenditures, including our discretionary future investments in Transco; our ability to replace or renegotiate our long-term power supply contracts; our ability to replace a mature workforce and retain qualified, skilled and experienced personnel; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these matters; accordingly, there can be no assurance as to actual results. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business (a) General Description of Business Central Vermont Public Service Corporation (the "company" or "we" or "our" or "us"), incorporated under the laws of Vermont on August 20, 1929, is engaged in the purchase, production, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. We are the largest electric utility in Vermont, serving about 158,000 retail customers in nearly two-thirds of the towns, villages and cities in Vermont. Our wholly owned subsidiaries include: Custom Investment Corporation ("Custom"), which was formed for the purpose of holding passive investments, including the stock of our subsidiaries that invest in regulated business opportunities. On October 13, 2003, we transferred our shares of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation ("VYNPC") to Custom. The transfer to Custom does not affect our rights and obligations related to VYNPC. C.V. Realty, Inc., a real estate company that owns, buys, sells and leases real and personal property and interests therein related to the utility business. CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc. was created for the purpose of financing and constructing a hydroelectric facility in Vermont, and became operational September 1, 1984. We have leased and operated it since the in-service date. Catamount Resources Corporation ("CRC") formed for the purpose of holding our subsidiaries that invest in unregulated business opportunities. CRC has a wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, which engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters in Vermont and New Hampshire through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. CRC had a wholly owned subsidiary, Catamount Energy Corporation ("Catamount"), which invested primarily in wind energy in the United States and the United Kingdom. In December 2005, CRC completed the sale of all of its interest in Catamount to CEC Wind Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company established by Diamond Castle Holdings. Page 2 of 104 In 2007, we dissolved our wholly owned subsidiary Connecticut Valley Electric Company, Inc. ("Connecticut Valley"), which had been incorporated under the laws of New Hampshire on December 9, 1948. Connecticut Valley distributed and sold electricity in parts of New Hampshire bordering the Connecticut River, until January 1, 2004 when it completed the sale of substantially all of its plant assets and its franchise to Public Service Company of New Hampshire. Our equity ownership interests as of December 31, 2007 are summarized below. These are also described in more detail in Part II, Item 8, Note 3 - Investments in Affiliates. We own 58.85 percent of the common stock of VYNPC, which was initially formed by a group of New England utilities to build and operate a nuclear-powered generating plant in Vernon, Vermont. On July 31, 2002, VYNPC sold the plant to Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC ("ENVY"). The sale agreement included a purchased power contract ("PPA") between VYNPC and ENVY. Under the PPA, VYNPC pays ENVY for generation at fixed rates, and in turn, bills the PPA charges from ENVY with certain residual costs of service through a FERC tariff to us and the other VYNPC sponsors. We own 47.05 percent of the common stock and 48.03 percent of the preferred stock of Vermont Electric Power Company, Inc. ("VELCO"), which owned the high-voltage transmission system in Vermont. In June 2006, VELCO transferred substantially all of its business operations and assets to Vermont Transco LLC ("Transco"). VELCO has a 12.52 percent equity interest in Transco and manages the operations of Transco under a Management Services Agreement. VELCO's wholly owned subsidiary, Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc. was formed to finance, construct and operate the Vermont portion of the 450 kV DC transmission line connecting the Province of Quebec with Vermont and New England. We own 39.79 percent of Class A Units of Transco, which was formed by VELCO and its owners in June 2006. Transco owns and operates the high-voltage transmission system in Vermont. Our total direct and indirect interest in Transco is 45.68 percent. We own 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company ("Maine Yankee"), 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company ("Connecticut Yankee") and 3.5 percent of the outstanding common stock of Yankee Atomic Electric Company ("Yankee Atomic"). All of the plants have been permanently shut down and have completed decommissioning. We also own small generating facilities and have joint ownership interests in certain generating facilities. These are described in Sources and Availability of Power Supply below. (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments Our two principal operating segments are the regulated utility business and the aggregate of the other companies. See Part II Item 8, Note 17 - Segment Reporting for financial information regarding those operating segments. (c) Narrative Description of Business Principal Products and Services Our operating revenues consist primarily of retail and resale sales. Retail sales are comprised of sales to a diversified customer mix including residential, commercial and industrial customers. Sales to the five largest retail customers receiving electric service accounted for about 6 percent of our annual retail electric revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Resale sales are comprised of long-term sales to third parties in New England, sales in the energy markets administered by ISO-New England and short-term system capacity sales. Our operating revenues and energy sales as of December 31 consisted of the following: Revenue mWh Sales 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 Retail Sales: Residential Commercial Industrial and other Resale Sales Customer refund Other operating revenue 41% 33% 11% 12% - - 3% 38% 32% 12% 16% - - 2% 41% 33% 12% 13% (2%) 3% 33% 29% 14% 24% - - - - 29% 27% 13% 31% - - - - 33% 31% 14% 22% - - - - Retail Rates Our retail rates are set by the Vermont Public Service Board ("PSB") after considering the recommendations of Vermont's consumer advocate, the Vermont Department of Public Service ("DPS"). While our retail rates do not include fuel or power cost adjustment mechanisms, the PSB has previously approved the deferral of extraordinary costs incurred that Page 3 of 104 might normally be expensed by unregulated businesses in order to match these expenses with future revenues. Fair regulatory treatment is fundamental to maintaining our financial stability. Rates must be set at levels to recover costs, including a market rate of return to equity and debt holders, in order to attract capital. Our retail rates at December 31, 2007 were based on a December 7, 2006 PSB Order that provided for, among other things, a 4.07 percent rate increase effective January 1, 2007, and an allowed rate of return on common equity of 10.75 percent capped until our next rate proceeding. On May 15, 2007, we filed a request for a retail rate increase of 4.46 percent, or $12.4 million in annual revenues, based on the 2006 calendar year. On November 21, 2007, we reached a settlement with the DPS in the case, agreeing to a 2.3 percent rate increase, or additional revenue of $6.4 million on an annual basis, effective with bills rendered on or after February 1, 2008. The agreement allows us a rate of return on common equity of 10.71 percent, capped until our next rate proceeding or approval of an alternative regulation plan. On January 31, 2008, the PSB issued an Order approving the settlement agreement with the rate increase effective February 1, 2008. Wholesale Rates We provide wholesale transmission service to nine network customers and six point-to-point customers under ISO-New England FERC Electric Tariff No. 3, Section II - Open Access Transmission Tariff (Schedules 21-CV and 20A-CV). We also provide wholesale transmission service to one network customer under a FERC rate schedule. We maintain an OASIS site for transmission on the ISO-New England web page. Sources and Availability of Power Supply For the year ended December 31, 2007 our energy generation and purchased power required to serve retail and firm wholesale customers was 2,487,279 mWh. The maximum one-hour integrated demand during that period was 420.6 MW and occurred on August 3, 2007. For 2006, our energy generation and purchased power required to serve retail and firm wholesale customers was 2,461,444 mWh. The maximum one-hour integrated demand was 437.6 MW and occurred on August 2, 2006. The sources of energy and capacity available to us for the year ended December 31, 2007 are as follows: Net Effective Capability 12 Month Average Generated and Purchased MW mWh Percent Wholly Owned Plants: Hydro Diesel and Gas Turbine Jointly Owned Plants: Millstone #3 Wyman #4 McNeil Long-Term Purchases: VYNPC Hydro-Quebec Independent power producers Other Purchases: System and other purchases NEPOOL (ISO-New England) Total 41.1 25.9 19.9 10.7 10.7 179.6 143.2 34.6 0.4 - 466.1 181,360 637 150,525 5,470 56,597 1,361,754 998,411 176,169 128,269 90,917 3,150,109 5.8 - 4.8 0.2 1.8 43.2 31.7 5.5 4.1 2.9 100.0 Wholly Owned Plants: Our wholly owned plants are located in Vermont, and have a combined nameplate capacity of about 74.2 MW. We operate all of these plants, which include: 1) 20 hydroelectric generating facilities with nameplate capacities ranging from a low of 0.3 MW to a high of 7.5 MW, for an aggregate nameplate capacity of 45.3 MW; 2) two oil-fired gas turbines with a combined nameplate capacity of 26.5 MW; and 3) one diesel peaking unit with a nameplate capacity of 2.4 MW. At December 31, 2007 the diesel plant was in deactivated status though its capacity is included in the above totals. Page 4 of 104 Jointly Owned Plants: We have joint-ownership interests in generating and transmission facilities. We are responsible for our share of the operating expenses of these facilities. Our interests in these facilities for the year ended December 31 follows (dollars in thousands): December 31 Fuel Type Ownership In-Service Date MW Entitlement 2007 2006 Wyman #4 Joseph C. McNeil Millstone Unit #3 Highgate Transmission Facility Less accumulated depreciation Oil Various Nuclear 1.7769% 20.0000% 1.7303% 47.5200% 1978 1984 1986 1985 10.8 10.8 20.0 N/A $3,504 15,587 77,349 14,390 110,830 62,233 $48,597 $3,422 15,555 77,162 14,357 110,496 60,986 $49,510 As shown in the sources and availability of power supply table above, we receive our share of output and capacity from these facilities. Millstone Unit #3 is a 1,155-MW nuclear generating facility, Wyman #4 is a 609-MW generating facility and Joseph C. McNeil is a 54-MW generating facility. The Highgate Converter, a 225-MW facility, is directly connected to the Hydro-Quebec System to the north and to the Transco system for delivery of power to Vermont utilities. This facility can deliver power in either direction, but predominantly delivers power from Hydro-Quebec to Vermont. Major Long-Term Purchases Vermont Yankee: We purchase our entitlement share of Vermont Yankee plant output from VYNPC under the PPA between VYNPC and ENVY. The PPA extends through the plant's current license life, which expires in 2012. On June 8, 2006, the plant received a new output rating of approximately 620 MW, a 20 percent increase in plant capacity. Our entitlement of total plant output was reduced from 35 percent to 29 percent in September 2006 due to the uprate, but our share of plant output is similar to the amount received before the uprate process began. Prices under the PPA range from $39 to $45 per mWh. The PPA contains a provision known as the "low market adjuster" that calls for a downward adjustment in the contract price if market prices for electricity fall by defined amounts. If market prices rise, however, PPA prices are not adjusted upward in excess of the PPA price. ENVY has no obligation to supply energy to VYNPC over the amount the plant is producing, so we receive reduced amounts when the plant is operating at a reduced level, and no energy when the plant is not operating. We are responsible for purchasing replacement energy at these times. The next refueling outage is scheduled for late 2008. We have entered into a forward purchase contract for replacement energy during the scheduled outage. We also purchased forced outage insurance to cover additional costs, if any, of obtaining replacement power from other sources if Vermont Yankee experiences unplanned outages between January 1 and December 31, 2008. If the Vermont Yankee plant is shut down for any reason prior to the end of its operating license, we would lose about 50 percent of our committed energy supply and would have to acquire replacement power resources for approximately 40 percent of our estimated power supply needs. We are not able to predict whether there will be an early shutdown of the Vermont Yankee plant or whether the PSB will allow timely and full recovery of increased costs related to any such shutdown. An early shutdown could materially impact our financial position and future results of operations if the costs are not recovered in retail rates in a timely fashion. Hydro-Quebec: We are purchasing power from Hydro-Quebec under the Vermont Joint Owners ("VJO") Power Contract. The VJO is a group of Vermont electric companies, municipal utilities and cooperatives of which we are a member. The VJO Power Contract has been in place since 1987 and purchases under the contract began in 1990. Subsequently, we negotiated related contracts with Hydro-Quebec that altered the terms and conditions contained in the original contract by reducing the overall power requirements and related costs. The VJO contract runs through 2020, but our purchases under the contract end in 2016. As of December 31, 2007, our obligation was about 47 percent of the total VJO Power Contract through 2016. The average annual amount of capacity that we will purchase from January 1, 2008 through October 31, 2012 is about 144.8 MW, with lesser amounts purchased through October 31, 2016. In the early phase of the VJO Power Contract, two sellback contracts were negotiated, the first delaying the purchase of 25 MW of capacity and associated energy, the second reducing the net purchase of Hydro-Quebec power through 1996. In 1994, we negotiated a third sellback arrangement whereby we received a reduction in capacity costs from 1995 to 1999. In exchange, Hydro-Quebec obtained two options. The first gives Hydro-Quebec the right, upon four years' written notice, to Page 5 of 104 reduce capacity deliveries by 50 MW, including the use of a like amount of our Phase I/II transmission facility rights. The second gives Hydro-Quebec the right, upon one year's written notice, to curtail energy deliveries in a contract year (12 months beginning November 1) from an annual capacity factor of 75 to 50 percent due to adverse hydraulic conditions as measured at certain metering stations on unregulated rivers in Quebec. This second option can be exercised five times through October 2015. Hydro-Quebec has not yet exercised these options. Under the VJO Power Contract, the VJO had elections to change the annual load factor from 75 percent to between 70 and 80 percent five times through 2020, while Hydro-Quebec had elections to reduce the load factor to not less than 65 percent three times during the same period. Hydro-Quebec and the VJO have used all of their elections. Based on elections made by the VJO in 2005 and 2006, purchases under the VJO Power Contract were at an 80 percent load factor for the contract years beginning November 1, 2005 and 2006. As of November 1, 2007, the annual load factor is 75 percent for the remainder of the contract, unless the contract is changed or there is a reduction due to the adverse hydraulic conditions described above. We, Green Mountain Power, the Vermont Public Power Supply Authority and HQ-Production are using a steering committee structure to develop background materials, terms and supporting actions needed in negotiations for future power purchases from Hydro-Quebec. We believe there is a high probability that we will have a new contract with Hydro-Quebec, and we have agreed to target completion of proposed draft terms by the end of 2008, with a proposed contract for review by the PSB in 2009. We cannot predict whether a contract will ultimately be approved or, if approved, the quantities of power to be purchased or the price terms of any purchases. Independent Power Producers: We purchase power from several Independent Power Producers ("IPPs") who own qualifying facilities under the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. These facilities primarily use water and biomass as fuel. Most of the power comes through a state-appointed purchasing agent that assigns power to all Vermont utilities under PSB rules. Other Purchases System and Other Purchases, including ISO-New England: We participate in the New England regional wholesale electric power markets operated by ISO-New England Inc., the regional bulk power transmission organization established to assure reliable and economical power supply in New England, which is governed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). We also engage in short-term purchases with other third parties, primarily in New England, to minimize net power costs and risks to our customers. We enter into forward purchase contracts when additional supply is needed and enter into forward sale contracts when we forecast excess supply. On an hourly basis, power is sold or bought through ISO-New England's settlement process to balance our resource output and load requirements. See Part II, Item 7, Power Supply Matters and Item 8, Note 16 - Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to our power supply and related long-term power contracts. Franchise Pursuant to Vermont statute (30 V.S.A. Section 249), the PSB has established the service area in which we currently operate. Under 30 V.S.A. Section 251(b) no other company is legally entitled to serve any retail customers in our established service area except as described below. An amendment to 30 V.S.A. Section 212(a) enacted May 28, 1987 authorizes the DPS to purchase and distribute power at retail to all consumers of electricity in Vermont, subject to certain preconditions specified in new sections 212(b) and 212(c). Section 212(b) provides that a review board, consisting of the governor and certain other designated legislative officers, review and approve any retail proposal by the DPS if the review board is satisfied that the benefits outweigh any potential risk to the state. However, the DPS may proceed to file the retail proposal with the PSB either upon approval by the review board or failure of the review board to act within 60 days of the submission. Section 212(c) provides that the DPS shall not enter into any retail sales arrangement before the PSB determines that it is appropriate. The PSB assesses the following factors in reaching its conclusion: 1) the need for the sale; 2) the rates are just and reasonable; 3) the sale will result in economic benefit; 4) the s ale will not adversely affect system stability and reliability; and 5) the sale will be in the best interest of ratepayers. Section 212(d) provides that upon PSB approval of a DPS retail sales request, Vermont utilities shall make arrangements for distributing such electricity on terms and conditions that are negotiated. Failing such negotiation, the PSB is directed to determine such terms as will compensate the utility for all costs reasonably and necessarily incurred to provide such arrangements. Such sales have not been made in our service area since 1993. Page 6 of 104 In addition, Chapter 79 of Title 30 authorizes municipalities to acquire the electric distribution facilities located within their boundaries. The exercise of such authority is conditioned upon an affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters in an election and upon payment of just compensation including severance damages. Just compensation is determined either by negotiation between the municipality and the utility or by the PSB after a hearing, if the parties fail to reach an agreement. If either party is dissatisfied, the statute allows them to appeal the PSB's determination to the Vermont Supreme Court. Once the price is determined, whether by agreement of the parties or by the PSB, a second affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters is required. There have been two instances where Chapter 79 of Title 30 has been invoked. In one instance, the Town of Springfield acted to acquire our distribution facilities in that community pursuant to a vote in 1977; that action was discontinued in 1985. The other instance, which occurred in 2002, involved the Town of Rockingham, which voted to pursue purchase of our distribution facilities, Green Mountain Power's distribution facilities, and another party's hydroelectric facility located in Bellows Falls. We refused to voluntarily sell our distribution facilities. In November 2003, we were notified that Rockingham intended to obtain our facilities by eminent domain under Title 24 V.S.A. Section 2805. We opposed this action as being contrary to Title 30, and in December 2003 obtained a permanent injunction from the Superior Court prohibiting Rockingham from pursuing this course of action. If Rockingham decides to continue this action in the future, it must proceed with the PSB under Title 30. After its opt ion to purchase the Bellows Falls hydroelectric facility expired in 2005, Rockingham discontinued its efforts to acquire our distribution facilities. Regulation State Commissions: As described above we are subject to the regulatory authority of the PSB with respect to rates and terms of service. Along with VELCO and Transco, we are subject to PSB jurisdiction related to securities issuances, planning and construction of major generation and transmission facilities and various other matters. Additionally, the Maine Public Utilities Commission exercises limited jurisdiction over us based on our joint-ownership interest as a tenant-in-common of Wyman #4, and the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control has similar jurisdiction based on our interest in Millstone Unit #3. Federal Power Act: Certain phases of our business and that of Transco, including certain rates, are subject to the FERC. We are a licensee of hydroelectric developments under Part I of the Federal Power Act, and along with Transco, we are interstate public utilities under Parts II and III, as amended and supplemented by the National Energy Act. We are in the process of licensing two separate hydro-projects under the Federal Power Act. These projects represent about 4.1 MW, or 9 percent of our hydroelectric nameplate capacity. We obtained exemptions from licensing for the Bradford and East Barnet projects. Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005: The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 includes numerous provisions meant to increase domestic gas and oil supplies, improve energy system reliability, build new nuclear power plants, and expand renewable energy sources. It also repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, effective February 2006. By reason of our ownership of utility subsidiaries, we are a holding company, as defined in this act. We have received a blanket exemption from the FERC to acquire securities of Transco, which previously required FERC approval. Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC"): The nuclear generating facilities in which we have an interest are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to regulate siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors with respect to public health, safety, environmental and antitrust matters. Under its continuing jurisdiction, the NRC may require modification of units for which operating licenses have already been issued, or impose new conditions on such licenses, or require that the operation of a unit cease or that the level of operation of a unit be temporarily or permanently reduced. Competitive Conditions Competition currently takes several forms. At the wholesale level, New England has implemented its version of FERC's "standard market design" ("SMD"), which is a detailed competitive market framework that has resulted in bid-based competition of power suppliers rather than prices set under cost-of-service regulation. Similar versions of SMD have been implemented in New York and a large abutting multi-state region referred to as PJM. At the retail level, customers have long had energy options. Another competitive threat is the potential for customers to form municipally owned utilities in our service territory. Competition in the energy services market exists between electricity and fossil fuels. In the residential and small commercial sectors, this competition is primarily for electric space and water heating from propane and oil dealers. Competitive issues are price, service, convenience, cleanliness, automatic delivery and safety. Page 7 of 104 In the large commercial and industrial sectors, cogeneration and self-generation are the major competitive threats to network electric sales. Competitive risks in these market segments are primarily related to seasonal, one-shift milling operations that can tolerate periodic power outages common to such forms of cogeneration or self-generation, and for industrial or institutional customers with steady heat loads where the generator's waste heat can be used in their manufacturing or space conditioning processes. Competitive advantages for electricity in those segments are: cost stability; convenience; cost of back-up power sources or alternatively, reliability; space requirements; noise problems; air emission and site permit issues; and maintenance requirements. However, there may be some circumstances where cogeneration could provide benefits to us in constrained areas of our system. Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental regulations in the licensing and operation of the generation, transmission, and distribution facilities in which we have an interest, as well as the licensing and operation of the facilities in which we are a co-licensee. These environmental regulations are administered by local, state and federal regulatory authorities and may impact our generation, transmission, distribution, transportation and waste handling facilities on air, water, land and aesthetic qualities. We cannot presently forecast the costs or other effects that environmental regulation may ultimately have on our existing and proposed facilities and operations. We believe that any such prudently incurred costs related to our utility operations would be recoverable through the ratemaking process. For additional information see Part II, Item 8, Note 16 - Commitments and Contingencies. Seasonal Nature of Business Our kilowatt-hour sales and revenues are typically higher in the winter and summer than in the spring and fall, as sales tend to vary with weather. Ski area and other winter-related recreational activities along with associated lodging, longer hours of darkness and heating loads from cold weather contribute to higher sales in the winter, while air conditioning generates higher sales in the summer. Consumption is least in the spring and fall, when there is decreased heating or cooling load. Capital Expenditures Our business is capital-intensive and requires annual construction expenditures to maintain the distribution system. Capital expenditures for the next five years are expected to range from $31.0 million to $56.0 million annually. These are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures and timing may vary. Also see Part II, Item 7, Liquidity, Capital Resources and Commitments. Number of Employees Local Union No. 300, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, represent our operating and maintenance employees. On December 31, 2007 we had 552 employees, of which 220 are represented by the union. On December 29, 2004, we agreed with our employees represented by the union to a new four-year contract, which expires on December 31, 2008. Executive Officers of Registrant The following sets forth the executive officers. There are no family relationships among the executive officers. The term of each officer is for one year or until a successor is elected. Officers are normally elected annually. Name and Age Office Officer Since Robert H. Young, 60 President and chief executive officer 1987 William J. Deehan, 55 Vice president - power planning and regulatory affairs 1991 Brian P. Keefe, 50 Vice president - government and public affairs 2006 Pamela J. Keefe, 42 Vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer 2006 Joan F. Gamble, 50 Vice president - strategic change and business services 1998 Joseph M. Kraus, 52 Senior vice president - operations, engineering and customer service 1987 Dale A. Rocheleau, 49 Senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 2003 Page 8 of 104 Mr. Young joined the company in 1987 and was elected to his present position in 1995. Mr. Young also serves as president, CEO, and chair of our subsidiaries: CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; C.V. Realty, Inc.; Custom; CRC; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. He serves as chair of the board of directors of our affiliates: VYNPC and The Home Service Store, Inc. He is also director of our affiliates: VELCO, and Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc. Mr. Young is director of the Edison Electric Institute, Inc., Chittenden Trust Company, University of Vermont, Vermont Business Roundtable, Associated Industries of Vermont, and the Weston Playhouse Theatre Company. Mr. Deehan joined the company in 1985 with nine years of utility regulation and related research experience. Mr. Deehan was elected to his present position in May 2001. Ms. Gamble joined the company in 1989 with 10 years of electric utility and related consulting experience. Ms. Gamble was elected to her present position in August 2001. Ms. Gamble also serves as vice president - strategic change and business services for our subsidiary: Eversant Corporation. She serves as a director for our subsidiaries: Eversant Corporation and SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Keefe joined the company in December 2006. Prior to being elected to his present position he served as vice president for governmental affairs from December 2006 to September 2007. Prior to joining the company, from 2000 to 2006, he served as a senior aide to U.S. Senator James M. Jeffords, focusing on energy, environment and economic development issues, and serving as liaison between Vermont constituents and Washington, D.C. policymakers. Ms. Keefe joined the company in June 2006. Prior to joining the company, from 2003 to 2006, she served as senior director of financial strategy and assistant treasurer of IDX Systems Corporation ("IDX"); from 1999 to 2003 she served as director of financial planning and analysis and assistant treasurer at IDX. Ms. Keefe serves as director, vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer of our subsidiaries: CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; C.V. Realty, Inc.; Custom; CRC; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. She also serves as a director of our affiliate, VYNPC. Mr. Kraus joined the company in 1981. Prior to being elected to his present position he served as senior vice president engineering and operations, general counsel, and secretary from May 2003 until November 2003. Mr. Kraus serves as director of our subsidiaries: CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; C.V. Realty, Inc.; Custom; CRC; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Rocheleau joined the company in November 2003. Prior to being elected to his present position he served as senior vice president for legal and public affairs, and corporate secretary from November 2003 to September 2007. Prior to joining the company, he served as director and attorney at law from 1992 to 2003 with Downs Rachlin Martin, PLLC. Mr. Rocheleau serves as director, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of our subsidiaries: CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; C.V. Realty, Inc.; Custom; CRC; Eversant Corporation; and SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Energy Conservation and Load Management The primary purpose of Conservation and Load Management programs is to offset need for long-term power supply and delivery resources that are more expensive to purchase or develop than customer-efficiency programs, including unpriced external factors such as emissions and economic risk. The Vermont Energy Efficiency Utility ("EEU"), created by the state of Vermont, began operation in January 2000. We have a continuing obligation to provide customer information and referrals, and coordination of customer service, power quality, and any other distribution utility functions, which may intersect with the EEU's activities. We have retained the obligation to provide demand side management programs targeted at deferral of our transmission and distribution projects, as identified in Distributed Utility Planning ("DUP"). DUP is designed to ensure that safe, reliable delivery services are provided at least cost. The PSB recently approved a similar process for the bulk transmission lines and Transco. The PSB appointed three members of the public, along with representatives of the state's utilities, including us, to the newly created Vermont State Planning Committee to oversee that process. The Vermont Legislature, in 2006, also gave Efficiency Vermont authority to target the delivery of energy efficiency to specific geographic areas to defer transmission and distribution upgrades. This process began for the first time in 2007. Unregulated Businesses CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. to customers in Vermont and New Hampshire. Page 9 of 104 Recent Energy Policy Initiatives Several laws have been passed since 2005 that impact electric utilities in Vermont. While provisions of recently passed laws are now being implemented, there is continued interest in new policies designed to reduce electricity consumption, promote renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to monitor regional and federal proposals that may have an impact on our operations. See Part II, Item 7 - Recent Energy Policy Initiatives. (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas We and our subsidiaries do not have any foreign operations or export sales. (e) Available Information We make available free of charge through the Internet Website, www.cvps.com, the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Access to the reports is available from the main page of the Internet Website through "Investor Relations." Our Corporate Ethics and Conflict of Interest Policy, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Charters of the Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees are also available on the Internet Website. Access to these documents is available from the main page of our Internet Website under "About us" and then "Corporate Governance." Printed copies of these documents are also available upon written request to the Assistant Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices. Our reports, proxy, information statements and other inf ormation are also available by accessing the SEC's Internet Website, www.sec.gov, or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control, cannot be limited cost-effectively or may occur despite our risk-mitigation strategies. Each of the following risks could have a material effect on our performance. Changes in regulatory or legislative policy could jeopardize our full recovery of costs: Under state law, we are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow us an opportunity to recover reasonable operation and capital costs and a return on investment to attract needed capital and maintain our financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests. We prepare and submit periodic filings with the DPS for review and with the PSB for review and approval. The PSB may not approve the recovery of all costs incurred for the operation, maintenance, and construction of our regulated assets, as well as a return on investment. Increases in these costs, coupled with increases in energy prices, could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such incurred costs, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Risks related to liquidity: We have a six-month unsecured term note in the principal amount of $53.0 million with a major lending institution. The loan is payable June 30, 2008 and currently carries an adjustable borrowing rate. Pursuant to a commitment from the lending institution dated February 11, 2008, we have the sole option to extend the maturity of the term note to March 31, 2009. We used the proceeds from this note to acquire additional equity membership interests in Transco. There is a possibility that available capital may be too expensive to pursue further investments in Transco, in which we hope to maintain an equity ownership approximately equal to our load share. We may issue both debt and equity in 2008. There is a risk that the resulting cost of capital may negatively affect our results of operations. Further liquidity risk exists with our $46.0 million capital expenditure program budgeted for 2008. We currently have a $25.0 million credit facility to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs and power contract performance assurance requirements in the form of funds borrowed and letters of credit. If we are unable to secure the necessary funding, we will need to review our corporate goals in response to this financial limitation. Other material risks to cash flow from operations include: loss of retail sales revenue from unusual weather; slower-than-anticipated load growth and unfavorable economic conditions; increases in net power costs largely due to lower-than-anticipated margins on sales revenue from excess power or an unexpected power source interruption; required prepayments for power purchases; and increases in performance assurance requirements described above, primarily as a result of high power market prices. Our ability to access capital markets at attractive interest rates is important: We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our business is capital intensive and we are dependent on our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. Heightened concerns about the energy industry, the level of borrowing by other energy companies and the market as a whole could limit our access to capital markets. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely Page 10 of 104 increase and our financial condition could be harmed, and future results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks related to our power supply and wholesale power market prices: Our material power supply contracts are principally with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC. The power supply contracts with VYNPC and Hydro-Quebec comprise the majority of our total annual energy (mWh) purchases. If one or both of these sources become unavailable for a period of time, there could be exposure to high wholesale power prices and that amount could be material. Additionally, this could significantly impact liquidity due to the potentially high cost of replacement power and performance assurance collateral requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. We could seek emergency rate relief from our regulators if this were to occur. Our contract for power purchases from VYNPC ends in 2012, but there is a risk that the plant could be shut down earlier than expected if ENVY determines that it is not economical to continue operating the plant. Deliveries under the contract with Hydro-Quebec end in 2016, but the level of deliveries begin to decrease after 2012. There is a risk that future sources available to replace these contracts may not be as reliable and the price of such replacement power could be significantly higher than what we have in place today. An inability to return our corporate credit rating to investment grade: In June 2005, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered our corporate credit rating to below investment grade. We believe that restoration of our credit rating is critical to our long-term success. While our credit rating remains below investment grade, the cost of capital, which is ultimately passed on to our customers, will be greater than it otherwise would be. That, combined with other collateral requirements from creditors and for power purchases and sales, makes restoration of our credit rating critical. Looking ahead, as long-term power contracts with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC begin to expire four to five years from now, these ratings become even more important. Access to needed capital is also more of a concern as a non-investment grade company, particularly in the current U.S. credit environment. Active employee and retiree healthcare and pension costs are a significant part of our cost structure. The costs associated with healthcare or pension obligations could escalate at rates higher than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Risk of adverse weather events: We serve a largely rural, rugged service territory with dense forestation that is subject to extreme weather. Our results of operations can be affected by changes in weather. Severe weather such as ice and snow storms, high winds and other natural disasters may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. We typically receive the five-year average of storm restoration costs in our rates, but unexpected storms or extraordinarily severe weather can dramatically increase costs, with a significant lag before recovery begins. Given the small size of the company, these weather events could have a material impact on our financial condition. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity. Risks related to the regional and national economic conditions can have an unfavorable impact on us. Our business follows the economic cycles of the customers we serve. An economic downturn and increased cost of energy supply could adversely affect energy consumption and therefore impact our results of operations. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. Economic conditions in our service territory also impact our collections of accounts receivable and financial results. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees. Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance. A significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to 10 years. Also, members of our management or key employees may leave the company unexpectedly. Such highly skilled individuals and institutional knowledge cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform. Cash flow risk and capital distributions from our affiliates. Transco's ability to pay distributions will be subject to its financial condition and financial covenants in the various loan documents to which it is subject. Although Transco is a regulated business, Transco may not always have the resources needed to pay distributions with respect to the units in the same manner as VELCO has paid in the past. Page 11 of 104 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 