Risk Factors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Unresolved Staff Comments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Submission of Matter to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 22 23 23 24 24 PART II Item 5. Item 6. Item 7. Item 7A. Item 8. Item 9. Item 9A. Item 9B. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Controls and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Other Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 26 27 61 64 126 126 129 PART III Item 10. Item 11. Item 12. Item 13. Item 14. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Principal Accounting Fees and Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129 129 129 129 129 PART IV Item 15. Signatures Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130 153 Page 3 of 153 Item 1. Business. Available Information Central Vermont Public Service Corporation (the "Company" or "we" or "our") makes available free of charge through its Internet Web Site, http://www.cvps.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Access to the reports is available from the main page of the Company's Internet Web site through "Investor Relations." The Company's Corporate Ethics and Conflict of Interest Policy, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Charters of the Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees are also available on our Internet Web Site. Access to these documents is available from the main page of the Company's Internet Web Site through "Corporate Governance and Ethics." Printed copies of these documents are also available upon written request to the Assistant Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices. The Company's reports, proxy, information statements and other information are also available by accessing the SEC's Internet Web Site, http://www.sec.gov, or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington DC 20549. Information regarding operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Overview The Company, incorporated under the laws of Vermont on August 20, 1929, is engaged in the purchase, production, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. The Company has various wholly and partially owned subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are described below. Also see Part II Item 8, Note 14 - Segment Reporting for financial information regarding the Company's business segments. The Company is the largest electric utility in Vermont and serves more than 151,000 customers in nearly three-quarters of the towns, villages and cities in Vermont. In addition, the Company supplies electricity to one municipal utility, one rural cooperative and one private utility. The Company's sales are derived from retail sales, resale firm sales and other resale sales. Retail sales accounted for 78 percent of total mWh sales in 2005, resale firm sales accounted for less than 1 percent and other resale sales accounted for about 22 percent. The Company's retail sales are derived from a diversified customer mix including residential, commercial and industrial customers. Sales to the five largest retail customers receiving electric service from the Company during 2005 accounted for about 6 percent of the Company's total electric revenues for the year. This compares to 6 percent during 2004 and 5 percent during 2003. The Company's other resale sales are related to contract sales to third parties in New England, sales to ISO-New England and short-term system capacity sales. See Part II Item 7, Results of Operations for detailed information regarding the Company's Operating Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The Company owns 47.05 percent of the common stock and 48.03 percent of the preferred stock of Vermont Electric Power Company, Inc. ("VELCO"). VELCO owns the high-voltage transmission system in Vermont. VELCO's wholly owned subsidiary, Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc. ("VETCO"), was formed to finance, construct and operate the Vermont portion of the 450 kV DC transmission line connecting the Province of Quebec with Vermont and New England. The Company owns 58.85 percent of the common stock of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation ("VYNPC"), which was initially formed by a group of New England utilities for the purpose of constructing and operating a nuclear-powered generating plant in Vernon, Vermont. On July 31, 2002, VYNPC completed the sale of its nuclear power plant to Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC ("ENVY"). VYNPC administers the purchased power contracts among the former plant owners and ENVY. The Company owns 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company, 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company and 3.5 percent of the outstanding common stock of Yankee Atomic Electric Company. The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Catamount Resources Corporation ("CRC"), was formed for the purpose of holding the Company's subsidiaries that invest in unregulated business opportunities. CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. to customers in Vermont and New Hampshire. Page 4 of 153 Other wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company include: C.V. Realty, Inc., a real estate company whose purpose is to own, acquire, buy, sell and lease real and personal property and interests therein related to the utility business. Central Vermont Public Service Corporation - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc. which was created for the purpose of financing and constructing a hydroelectric facility in Vermont, which became operational September 1, 1984 and has been leased and operated by the Company since its in-service date. Custom Investment Corporation ("Custom"), which was formed for the purpose of holding passive investments, including the stock of the Company's subsidiaries that invest in regulated business opportunities. On October 13, 2003, the Company transferred its shares of VYNPC to Custom. The transfer to Custom does not affect the Company's rights and obligations related to VYNPC. The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc. ("Connecticut Valley"), incorporated under the laws of New Hampshire on December 9, 1948, distributed and sold electricity in parts of New Hampshire bordering the Connecticut River. On January 1, 2004, Connecticut Valley completed the sale of substantially all of its plant assets and its franchise to Public Service Company of New Hampshire ("PSNH"). Connecticut Valley no longer conducts business as an electric utility in New Hampshire. On October 31, 2005, CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Catamount Energy Corporation ("Catamount"), which invested primarily in wind energy projects in the United States and the United Kingdom, issued shares of its common stock to CEC Wind Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company established by Diamond Castle Holdings ("Diamond Castle"). The stock issuance was based on Diamond Castle's firm commitment to invest $62.5 million in Catamount over a three-year period including its initial investment of $16 million made on October 31, 2005. The transaction diluted CRC's ownership interest in Catamount to 79 percent and its voting rights to 49 percent. On December 20, 2005, CRC sold all of its interest in Catamount to Diamond Castle. The Company's consolidated financial statements included herein present Catamount and Connecticut Valley as discontinued operations, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ("SFAS No. 144"). See Part II Item 8, Note 3 - Discontinued Operations. The Company also owns small generating facilities and has joint ownership interests in certain generating facilities. These are described in Power Resources below. Tender Offer On February 7, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved using about $50.0 million in proceeds from the December 20, 2005 sale of Catamount to buy back shares of its common stock in a reverse Dutch auction tender offer. The tender offer commenced on February 14, 2006 and was scheduled to expire on March 15, 2006, unless extended by the Company. Under the procedures of the tender offer, shareholders may offer to sell some or all of their stock to the Company at a target price in a range from $20.50 to $22.50 per share. Upon expiration of the tender offer, the Company will select the lowest-bid price that will allow it to buy up to 2,250,000 shares, which represents about 18.3 percent of the Company's outstanding common stock. On March 14, 2006, the Company announced that it was extending the tender offer until April 5, 2006. REGULATION AND COMPETITION State Commissions The Company is subject to the regulatory authority of the Vermont Public Service Board ("PSB") with respect to rates and terms of service, and the Company and VELCO are subject to PSB jurisdiction related to securities issuances, planning and construction of major generation and transmission facilities and various other matters. Additionally, the Public Utilities Commission of Maine and the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control exercise limited jurisdiction over the Company based on its joint-ownership interest as a tenant-in-common of Wyman #4, a 610 MW generating plant, and Millstone Unit #3, a 1155 MW nuclear generating facility, respectively. The Company was subject to the regulatory authority of the New Hampshire Public Utilities Commission ("NHPUC"), through its wholly owned subsidiary Connecticut Valley, with respect to rates, securities issuances and various other matters. On January 1, 2004, substantially all of Connecticut Valley's plant assets and its franchise were sold to PSNH. Page 5 of 153 Federal Power Act Certain phases of the businesses of the Company and VELCO, including certain rates, are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") as follows: the Company as a licensee of hydroelectric developments under Part I of the Federal Power Act, and the Company and VELCO as interstate public utilities under Parts II and III, as amended and supplemented by the National Energy Act. The Company is in the process of relicensing or preparing to relicense six separate hydro-projects under the Federal Power Act. These projects, some of which are grouped together under a single license, represent about 24.5 MW, or 54.8 percent, of the Company's hydroelectric nameplate capacity. The Company has obtained an exemption from licensing for the Bradford and East Barnet projects. See Power Resources below. Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 In August 2005, the Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted, which includes numerous provisions meant to increase domestic gas and oil supplies, improve energy system reliability, build new nuclear power plants, and expand renewable energy sources. Public Utility Holding Company Act The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, effective February 2006. The Company, by reason of its ownership of utility subsidiaries, is a holding company, as defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. The Company intends to make all required filings with FERC of notices required under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 by the required due dates. Environmental Matters The Company is subject to environmental regulations in the licensing and operation of the generation, transmission, and distribution facilities in which it has an interest, as well as the licensing and operation of the facilities in which it is a co-licensee. These environmental regulations are administered by local, state and federal regulatory authorities and may impact the Company's generation, transmission, distribution, transportation and waste handling facilities on air, water, land and aesthetic qualities. The Company cannot presently forecast the costs or other effects that environmental regulation may ultimately have on its existing and proposed facilities and operations. The Company believes that any such prudently incurred costs related to its utility operations would be recoverable through the ratemaking process. For additional information see Part II Item 8, Note 13, herein for disclosures relating to environmental contingencies, hazardous substance releases and the control measures related thereto. Nuclear Matters The nuclear generating facilities in which the Company has an interest are subject to extensive regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC"). The NRC is empowered to regulate siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors with respect to public health, safety, and environmental and antitrust matters. Under its continuing jurisdiction, the NRC may, after appropriate proceedings, require modification of units for which operating licenses have already been issued, or impose new conditions on such licenses, and may require that the operation of a unit cease or that the level of operation of a unit be temporarily or permanently reduced. Competition Competition currently takes several forms. At the wholesale level, New England has implemented its version of FERC's "standard market design" ("SMD"), which is a detailed competitive market framework that has resulted in bid-based competition of power suppliers rather than prices set under cost of service regulation. Similar versions of SMD have been implemented in New York State and a large abutting multi-state region referred to as PJM. At the retail level, customers have long had energy options such as propane, natural gas or oil for heating, cooling and water heating, and self-generation. Another competitive threat is the potential for customers to form municipally owned utilities in the Company's service territory. Pursuant to Vermont statute (30 V.S.A. Section 249), the PSB has established the service area for the Company in which it currently operates. Under 30 V.S.A. Section 251(b) no other company is legally entitled to serve any retail customers in the Company's established service area except as described below. Page 6 of 153 An amendment to 30 V.S.A. Section 212(a) enacted May 28, 1987 authorizes the Vermont Department of Public Service ("DPS") to purchase and distribute power at retail to all consumers of electricity in Vermont, subject to certain preconditions specified in new sections 212(b) and 212(c). Section 212(b) provides that a review board, consisting of the Governor and certain other designated legislative officers, review and approve any retail proposal by the DPS if they are satisfied that the benefits outweigh any potential risk to the State. However, the DPS may proceed to file the retail proposal with the PSB either upon approval by the review board or failure of the review board to act within sixty (60) days of the submission. Section 212(c) provides that the DPS shall not enter into any retail sales arrangement before the PSB determines that it is appropriate. The PSB assesses the following factors in reaching its conclusion: (1) the need for the sale; (2) the rates are just and reasonable; (3) the sale will result in economic benefit; (4) the sale will not adversely affect system stability and reliability; and (5) the sale will be in the best interest of ratepayers. Section 212(d) provides that upon PSB approval of a DPS retail sales request, Vermont utilities shall make arrangements for distributing such electricity on terms and conditions that are negotiated. Failing such negotiation, the PSB is directed to determine such terms as will compensate the utility for all costs reasonably and necessarily incurred to provide such arrangements. Such sales have not been made in the Company's service area since 1993. In addition, Chapter 79 of Title 30 authorizes municipalities to acquire the electric distribution facilities located within their boundaries. The exercise of such authority is conditioned upon an affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters in an election and upon payment of just compensation including severance damages. Just compensation is determined either by negotiation between the municipality and the utility or by the PSB after a hearing, if the parties fail to reach an agreement. If either party is dissatisfied, the statute allows them to appeal the PSB's determination to the Vermont Supreme Court. Once the price is determined, whether by agreement of the parties or by the PSB, a second affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters is required. There have been two instances where Chapter 79 of Title 30 has been invoked. In one instance, the Town of Springfield acted to acquire the Company's distribution facilities in that community pursuant to a vote in 1977; that action was discontinued in 1985. The other instance, which occurred in 2002, involved the Town of Rockingham, which voted to pursue purchase of the Company's distribution facilities, Green Mountain Power's ("GMP") distribution facilities, and another party's hydroelectric facility located in Bellows Falls. The Company and GMP refused to voluntarily sell their distribution facilities. In November 2003, the Company was notified that Rockingham intended to obtain their facilities by eminent domain under Title 24 V.S.A. Section 2805. The Company opposed this action as being contrary to Title 30, and in December 2003 obtained a permanent injunction from the Superior Court prohibiting Rockingham from pursuing this course of action. If Rockingham decides to continue this action in the future, it must proceed with the PSB under Title 30. The Company currently serves about 260 residential and small general service customers in Rockingham, whose usage amounts to substantially less than one percent of the Company's annual retail sales. Competition in the energy services market exists between electricity and fossil fuels. In the residential and small commercial sectors, this competition is primarily for electric space and water heating from propane and oil dealers. Competitive issues are price, service, convenience, cleanliness, automatic delivery and safety. In the large commercial and industrial sectors, cogeneration and self-generation are the major competitive threats to network electric sales. Competitive risks in these market segments are primarily related to seasonal, one-shift milling operations that can tolerate periodic power outages common to such forms of cogeneration or self-generation, and for industrial or institutional customers with steady heat loads where the generator's waste heat can be used in their manufacturing or space conditioning processes. Competitive advantages for electricity in those segments are: cost stability; convenience; cost of back-up power sources or alternatively, reliability; space requirements; noise problems; air emission and site permit issues; and maintenance requirements. New Developments The electric utility industry is in a period of transition that in some cases has resulted in a shift away from ratemaking based on cost of service and return on equity to more market-based rates for power supply services, with energy sold to customers by competing retail energy service providers. Many states have implemented new mechanisms to bring greater competition, customer choice and market influence to the industry while retaining the public benefits associated with the current regulatory system. Page 7 of 153 The State of Vermont continues to examine changes to the provision of electric service absent introduction of retail choice. The Vermont Legislature passed, in the concluded 2005 session, Act 61, "Renewable Energy, Efficiency, Transmission, and Vermont's Energy Future" ("Act 61"), a new law that includes two major provisions of interest to the Company. The new law establishes a Sustainably Priced Energy Enterprise Development ("SPEED") Program with a collective requirement of all Vermont retail electricity providers to, in aggregate, supply all of their incremental load growth between January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2012 from new renewable supplies, new Renewable Energy Certificates, or a combination of the two, capped at a total of 10 percent of the statewide kWh sales during calendar year 2005. Under SPEED the PSB may: 1) offer the contracts secured by a PSB-named statewide entity or entities to utilities on a pro rata basis; 2) establish a process by which utilities may demonstrate that their power supply portfolio is sufficiently renewable so as to relieve them of having to accept a pro-rata share of additional SPEED renewable power; 3) encourage utilities to secure long-term contracts for renewable energy; and 4) encourage utility sponsorship and partnerships in the development of renewable energy projects. The SPEED program begins on January 1, 2007. By July 1, 2013, the PSB must determine whether Vermont's retail electricity providers have met the SPEED program's requirements. If the requirements have been met, no other PSB action is required. If not met, the law states that the SPEED program's collective requirement reverts to a utility-specific renewable portfolio standard ("RPS"). Under the RPS, each retail electricity provider would have to supply an amount of energy equal to its total incremental energy growth between January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2012 through the use of electricity generated by new renewable resources, capped at a total of 10 percent of the statewide kWh sales during calendar year 2005. As with the SPEED program, this requirement can be met from new renewable supplies, new Renewable Energy Certificates, or a combination of the two. Under either program, the Company could be required to purchase certain amounts of its energy supply requirement from new renewable sources while maintaining existing renewable power resources. Alternatively, if the utility-specific RPS takes effect, the Company may choose to pay an as-yet-undetermined charge per kWh, set by the PSB. The PSB is currently developing a rule to implement the SPEED program. The rule is expected to be finalized and adopted in September 2006. Act 61 also allows the DPS and PSB to initiate proceedings to adopt alternative forms of regulation for electric utilities that, besides other criteria, establish a reasonably balanced system of risks and rewards to encourage utilities to operate as efficiently as possible. Prior to the law's passage, only an electric utility could initiate an alternative regulation plan proposal. The PSB may only approve an alternative regulation plan if it finds that the plan will not adversely affect eligibility for rate-regulated accounting in accordance with GAAP and reasonably preserves the availability of equity and debt capital resources on favorable terms and conditions. To date, neither the Company nor the regulators have sought to implement an alternate form of regulation for the Company's operations. RATE DEVELOPMENTS Vermont Retail Rates The Company recognizes adequate and timely rate relief is required to maintain its financial strength, particularly since Vermont law does not allow purchased power and fuel costs to be passed on to consumers through purchased power and fuel adjustment clauses. The Company will continue to review costs and request rate increases when warranted. On April 7, 2004, the PSB issued an order to investigate the Company's retail rates. On July 15, 2004, the Company filed a cost of service study pursuant to the rate investigation, and filed a separate request for a 5.01 percent rate increase, effective April 1, 2005. The Company also requested that the two cases be consolidated; that request was later approved by the PSB. On February 18, 2005, the PSB approved the Company's request for an Accounting Order that allowed for deferral of 2004 utility earnings in excess of an 11 percent return on equity. Per the Accounting Order, the Company reduced 2004 utility earnings by about $2.3 million after-tax to achieve the 11 percent, and recorded an offsetting pre-tax regulatory liability of $3.8 million to be used or accounted for as the PSB determined in its final order. Page 8 of 153 On March 29, 2005, the PSB issued its Order ("Rate Order") on the rate investigation and the Company's request for a rate increase. The PSB concluded that the Company's rates were higher than was just and reasonable, and must be reduced. In the Rate Order, the PSB determined the annual revenue requirement for the period beginning April 1, 2004, established rates retroactive to April 7, 2004 and established new rates beginning April 1, 2005. The Rate Order included, among other things, the following: 1) a 1.88 percent rate reduction beginning April 1, 2005; 2) a $3.3 million refund to customers; 3) a 10 percent return on equity (reduced from 11 percent); and 4) a requirement that the gain resulting from termination of the power contract related to the 2004 Connecticut Valley sale be applied to the benefit of ratepayers to compensate for increased costs. The PSB finalized the rate refund and rate reduction amounts in its April 4, 2005 Compliance Order. The rate refund amounted to about $6.5 million pre-tax ($1.7 million is attributed to 2005, $4.5 million is attributed to 2004 and $0.3 million is related to carrying costs). The rate reduction amounted to 2.75 percent ($7.2 million pre-tax on an annual basis). For accounting purposes, the Rate Order resulted in a $21.8 million pre-tax unfavorable effect on utility earnings in the first quarter of 2005. The primary components of the charge to earnings included: 1) a revised calculation of overearnings for the period 2001 - 2003; 2) application of the gain resulting from termination of the power contract with Connecticut Valley to reduce costs; 3) a customer refund for the period April 7, 2004 through March 31, 2005; and 4) amortization of costs and other adjustments required in the Rate Order. These are described in more detail in Item 8, See Note 12 - Retail Rates. On June 22, 2005, the Company filed an appeal of portions of the Rate Order with the Vermont Supreme Court. On July 11, 2005, the Company filed a docketing statement with the court in which it outlined the issues in its case. The docketing statement describes the ordered payback of earnings from periods prior to the opening of the rate investigation, namely the years 2001 to 2003 and also the first quarter of 2004, when the Company recorded a gain from the Connecticut Valley sale. The issues that were raised on appeal primarily focus on whether the Rate Order set rates retroactively without statutory authorization. On July 27, 2005, the DPS filed a response opposing the Company's position. The Company filed its legal brief and other materials in the case on August 22, 2005. Expedited oral argument occurred on January 31, 2006. The Company expects a Vermont Supreme Court decision on the case in the second or third quarter of 2006. The Company is not able to predict the outcome of this matter at this time. The Company's August 29, 2005 rate design proposal that it filed in compliance with the Rate Order maintains the Company's overall revenue requirement approved in the Rate Order, but modestly reallocates rate class revenue between some rate classes. The proposal includes a 1 percent rate increase for residential Rates 1 and 8, a 2.99 percent increase in off peak water heating Rates 3 and 14 and a 2.83 percent decrease in general service Rate 2. In addition, the Company's proposal includes lower demand charges and higher energy charges for rate classes with those components, which would be revenue neutral for each rate class. Several Vermont ski areas have intervened, and the Company has participated in several workshops to seek a settlement with all parties. If settlement discussions are not successful, a schedule for hearings will be determined. Wholesale Rates The Company provides wholesale transmission service to nine network customers and five point-to-point customers under its FERC Open Access Transmission Service Tariff No. 7, and to four network customers under two FERC rate schedules. One interconnection request is in process under Tariff No. 7. The Company maintains an OASIS site for transmission on the ISO-New England web page. Effective February 1, 2005, Tariff No. 7 was succeeded by ISO-New England FERC Electric Tariff No. 3, Section II - Open Access Transmission Tariff as Schedule 21-CV. Rochester Electric Light and Power is the only remaining customer taking wholesale power service under Rate R-12 of FPC Electric Tariff, First Revised Volume No. 1. New Hampshire Electric Cooperative, Inc. and Woodsville Fire District Water and Light Department take wholesale power service under FERC Electric Tariff, Original Volume No. 5. Prior to January 1, 2004, the Company sold firm power to Connecticut Valley under a wholesale rate schedule based on forecast data for each calendar year, which was reconciled to actual data annually. The rate schedule provided for an automatic update of annual capacity rates, as well as a subsequent reconciliation to actual data. The long-term contract under which the Company sold power to Connecticut Valley was terminated by Connecticut Valley as a result of the January 1, 2004 sale. The sale also resolved all Connecticut Valley restructuring litigation in New Hampshire and the Company's stranded cost litigation at FERC. The sale is described in more detail in Part II Item 8, Note 3 - Discontinued Operations. Page 9 of 153 Prior to the January 1, 2004 sale, Connecticut Valley's retail rate tariffs were approved by the NHPUC, and contained a Fuel Adjustment Clause and a Purchased Power Cost Adjustment. Under these clauses, Connecticut Valley recovered its estimated annual costs for purchased energy and capacity; these estimates were reconciled annually when actual data was available. POWER RESOURCES Overview The Company's energy generation and purchased power required to serve retail and firm wholesale customers was 2,488,790 mWh for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2,423,227 mWh for the year ended December 31, 2004. The maximum one-hour integrated demand during that period was 412.0 MW, which occurred on July 19, 2005, compared to 426.5 MW, which occurred on December 27, 2004. Total energy generation and purchased power in 2005, including that related to all resale customers, was 3,098,554 mWh. The following table shows the sources of such energy and capacity available to the Company for the year ended December 31, 2005. For additional information related to purchased power, refer to PART II Item 7, Results of Operations and Power Supply Matters. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Net Effective Capability 12 Month Average MW Generated and Purchased mWh % Wholly Owned Plants Hydro Diesel and Gas Turbine Jointly Owned Plants Millstone #3 Wyman #4 McNeil Major Long Term Purchases VYNPC Hydro-Quebec Other Purchases System and other purchases Independent power producers NEPOOL (ISO-New England) Total 40.9 27.4 20.0 10.8 10.7 179.7 142.8 0.4 29.9 - 462.6 200,370 1,068 151,344 11,261 47,273 1,430,155 832,357 129,325 160,396 135,005 3,098,554 6.5 - 4.9 0.3 1.5 46.1 26.9 4.2 5.2 4.4 100.0 Wholly Owned Plants The Company's wholly owned plants are located in Vermont, and have a combined nameplate capacity of about 74.2 MW. The Company owns and operates all of these plants which, include: 1) 20 hydroelectric generating facilities with nameplate capacities ranging from a low of about 0.3 MW to a high of about 7.5 MW, for an aggregate nameplate capacity of 45.3 MW; 2) two oil-fired gas turbines with a combined nameplate capacity of 26.5 MW; and 3) one diesel-peaking unit with a nameplate capacity of 2.4 MW. Jointly Owned Plants The Company's joint-ownership interests in generating and transmission plants are shown in the table below. The Company is responsible for its share of the operating expenses of these facilities (dollars in thousands). Fuel Type Ownership In Service Date MW Entitlement December 31 2005 2004 Wyman #4 Joseph C. McNeil Millstone Unit #3 Highgate Transmission Facility Accumulated depreciation Oil Various Nuclear 1.7769% 20.0000% 1.7303% 47.3500% 1978 1984 1986 1985 10.8 10.8 20.0 N/A $3,419 15,575 77,105 14,302 110,401 58,141 $52,260 $3,385 15,488 76,450 14,281 109,604 55,260 $54,344 The Company receives its share of output and capacity of Millstone Unit #3, a 1,155 MW nuclear generating facility; Wyman #4, a 610 MW generating facility and Joseph C. McNeil, a 54 MW generating facility, as shown in the table above. Page 10 of 153 The Highgate Converter, a 225 MW, facility is directly connected to the Hydro-Quebec System to the north of the Converter and to the VELCO System for delivery of power to Vermont utilities. This facility can deliver power in either direction, but normally delivers power from Hydro-Quebec to Vermont. Major long-term power purchase commitments Hydro-Quebec The Company is purchasing varying amounts of power from Hydro-Quebec under the Vermont Joint Owners ("VJO") Power Contract through 2016. The VJO includes a group of Vermont electric companies and municipal utilities, of which the Company is a participant. The VJO Power Contract has been in place since 1987 and purchases began in 1990. Related contracts were subsequently negotiated between the Company and Hydro-Quebec, which altered the terms and conditions contained in the original contract by reducing the overall power requirements and related costs. There are specific contractual provisions that provide that in the event any VJO member fails to meet its obligation under the contract with Hydro-Quebec, the balance of the VJO participants, including the Company, will "step-up" to the defaulting party's share on a pro-rata basis. The VJO contract runs through 2020, but the Company's purchases related to the contract end in 2016. As of December 31, 2005, the Company's obligation is about 47 percent of the total VJO Power Contract through 2016, which translates to about $606 million, on a nominal basis. The average annual amount of capacity that the Company will purchase from January 1, 2006 through October 31, 2012 is about 144.7 MW, with lesser amounts purchased through October 31, 2016. See Part II Item 7, and Item 8, Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information regarding the Hydro-Quebec contract. VYNPC The Company has a 35 percent entitlement in Vermont Yankee plant output sold by Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC ("ENVY") to VYNPC, through a long-term power purchase ("PPA") contract with VYNPC. One remaining secondary purchaser continues to receive a small percentage of the Company's entitlement, reducing its entitlement to about 34.83 percent. The long-term contracts between VYNPC and the entitlement holders and between VYNPC and ENVY became effective on July 31, 2002, the same day that the plant was sold to ENVY. The Company no longer bears the operating costs and risks associated with running the plant or the costs and risks associated with the eventual decommissioning of the plant. ENVY has no obligation to supply energy to VYNPC over the amount the plant is producing, so entitlement holders receive reduced amounts of energy when the plant is operating at a reduced level, and no energy when the plant is not operating. The PPA through which VYNPC purchases power from ENVY and in turn sells to its sponsors includes prices that range from 3.9 cents to 4.5 cents per kilowatt-hour through March 2012. Effective November 2005, the contract prices are subject to a "low-market adjuster" that protects the Company and its power consumers if power market prices drop significantly. The low-market adjuster is a mechanism in which the PPA base contract price for each billing month is compared to a 12-month average (ending in same billing month) of hourly market prices as defined in the PPA. If the 12-month average market price is less than 95 percent of the base PPA contract price, then 105 percent of the 12-month average market price will be used for the billing month. The low-market adjusted price cannot exceed the base PPA contract price. If market prices rise, however, contract prices are not adjusted upward. In addition to PPA charges, VYNPC's billings to the sponsors include certain of its residual costs of service through a FERC tariff to the VYNPC sponsors. ENVY has announced that, under current operating parameters, it will exhaust the capacity of its nuclear waste (spent fuel) storage pool in 2007 or 2008 and will need to store nuclear waste in so-called 'dry cask storage' facilities to be constructed on the site. Construction and use of such dry cask storage facilities requires approval from the Vermont State Legislature, in addition to PSB approval. In early June 2005, the Vermont State Legislature passed a law authorizing ENVY to construct and use dry cask storage facilities on the site through its current license. In late June 2005, ENVY filed an application with the PSB for permission to install dry cask storage facilities at the site. At this time the PSB has not ruled on ENVY's application. If the PSB does not approve dry cask storage, ENVY has announced that it could be required to shut down the Vermont Yankee plant in 2007 or 2008, instead of its current license life of 2012. If the Vermont Yankee plant is shut down, the Company would lose about 50 percent of its committed energy supply and would have to acquire replacement power resources comprising about 40 percent of its estimated power supply needs. Based on projected market prices, the value of the lost output is estimated to be about $55 million on an annual basis. Based on this estimate, the Company would require a retail rate increase of about 20 percent for full cost recovery. The Company Page 11 of 153 is not able to predict whether there will be an early shutdown of the Vermont Yankee plant or whether the PSB will allow timely and full recovery of increased costs related to any such shutdown. The implications of an early shutdown of the Vermont Yankee plant could have a material effect on the Company's financial position and future results of operations, if those costs are not recovered in retail rates in a timely fashion. Ratepayer Protection Proposal: In March 2004, the PSB approved ENVY's request to increase generation at the Vermont Yankee plant by 110 megawatts. The PSB's approval included a condition that ENVY provide outage protection indemnification ("Ratepayer Protection Proposal" or "RPP") for times the uprate causes reductions in output that reduce the value of the PPA. The Company's maximum right to indemnification under the RPP is about $2.8 million for the three-year period beginning in May 2004 and ending after completion of the uprate (or a maximum of three years). Plant output has been reduced since the April 2004 scheduled refueling outage, and will continue until ENVY receives NRC approval for the uprate. The Company's entitlement was reduced by an average of about 4 MW during this period. The financial effect of such a reduction will be covered under the terms of the RPP. Additionally, the Company has sought recovery from ENVY, under the RPP, for incremental replacement energy costs incurred when the plant was shut down for 19 days beginning in mid-June 2004. The Company believes the plant went off line due to problems associated with uprate-related improvements made by ENVY, and sought about $0.8 million from ENVY. ENVY contends that the problem would have occurred regardless of the uprate. Having failed to reach a settlement with ENVY, the Company petitioned the PSB for resolution. There are risks that may not be covered under the RPP. After the Vermont Yankee plant uprating is complete, our percentage of energy output under the PPA would decline proportionately such that we would receive the same quantity of energy from the plant. Four other nuclear plants with steam dryers similar to Vermont Yankee's have experienced problems, and all were required to return to their pre-uprate power level until the problems were corrected. If such a problem were to occur with the Vermont Yankee plant's uprate, it is possible that under the PPA, the Company's entitlement to plant output could be reduced proportionately to the derating until operation is permitted at the post-uprate MW level. While this risk is mitigated in part by additional, controlled testing, during the process of increasing power output, under the supervision of the NRC and DPS, the Company estimates that this could have a material adverse effect on net power costs. The NRC gave final approval to the uprate on March 2, 2006. If the uprate were to be ultimately unsuccessful, it is also possible that the plant could be shut down earlier than its current licensed life. Any material reduction in output that is not compensated under the terms of the RPP or otherwise by ENVY could have a material impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations, if those increased costs are not recovered in retail rates in a timely fashion. On March 16, 2006, the Company, Green Mountain Power, ENVY and the DPS filed a settlement with the PSB resolving all issues raised in the petition before the PSB, plus the related derate issue described above. The settlement would resolve all issues through February 28, 2006. The Company's share of the settlement is estimated to be about $1.6 million including $0.7 million related to the June 2004 outage described above and the remaining for uprate-related costs. Pursuant to the Rate Order, any partial or full reimbursement received by the Company from ENVY under the RPP shall be recorded as a regulatory liability for return to ratepayers in the Company's next rate proceeding. The settlement is not effective until the PSB issues a final order. The Company cannot predict the timing or outcome of this matter at this time. Also see Part II Item 7, and Item 8, Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information regarding VYNPC. Other Purchases Cogeneration/Independent Power Qualifying Facilities The Company purchases power from several Independent Power Producers ("IPPs") who own qualifying facilities under the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. These facilities primarily use water and biomass as fuel. Most of the power comes through a state-appointed purchasing agent, which assigns power to all Vermont utilities under PSB rules. In 2005, total IPP purchases accounted for 6.0 percent of the Company's total mWh purchased and 13.2 percent of purchased power costs. See Part II Item 8, Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information. Page 12 of 153 NEPOOL and ISO-New England The Company is a participant in the New England Power Pool ("NEPOOL"), a regional bulk power transmission organization established to assure reliable and economical power supply in the Northeast United States. NEPOOL has been open to all investor-owned, municipal, and cooperative utilities in New England under an agreement in effect since 1971 and amended from time to time. The Restated NEPOOL Agreement offers membership privileges to any entity engaged or proposing to engage in the wholesale or retail electric power business in New England. NEPOOL continues to exist as the entity representing not only traditional electric utilities but companies that participate in the competitive wholesale electricity marketplace. A not-for-profit organization, New England Independent System Operator ("ISO-New England"), was established in July 1997, following FERC approval, and immediately assumed responsibility for the management of the New England region's power grid and transmission systems and administration of the region's open access tariff. ISO-New England was formed by transferring staff and equipment from NEPOOL to the new organization. ISO-New England has a service contract with NEPOOL to operate the bulk power system and to administer the wholesale marketplace. Beginning May 1, 2004, the Company began to settle its power accounts with ISO-New England on a standalone (direct) basis. Up until this time, all Vermont utilities were settled at ISO-New England, and VELCO then performed the settlement for each utility in Vermont. With changes in power markets and NEPOOL/ISO rules and procedures, many of the benefits of a single Vermont settlement have disappeared, and direct settlement now provides advantages to the Company in terms of efficiency and cost savings. Hourly purchases and sales through ISO-New England are described in Short-term Purchases and Sales below. ISO-New England is governed by FERC, under rules defined by NEPOOL and approved by FERC. These rules include providing independent, open and fair access to the regional transmission system, establishing a non-discriminatory governance structure, facilitating market-based wholesale electric transactions, and ensuring efficient management and reliable operation of the regional bulk power system. In March 2003, ISO-New England moved to SMD, a significant step to restructuring the wholesale energy markets in the Northeast. NEPOOL's peak for 2005 occurred on July 27, 2005 and totaled 26,885 MW. The Company's peak demand occurred on July 19, 2005 and totaled 412 MW, and the Company had a reserve margin of about 19.04 percent at the time. Short-term Purchases and Sales The Company engages in short-term purchases and sales in the wholesale markets administered by ISO-New England and with other third parties, primarily in New England, to minimize net power costs and risks to its customers. Such short-term purchases and sales are not considered energy trading activities. The Company enters into forward purchase contracts when additional supply is needed and enters into forward sale contracts when it forecasts excess supply. On an hourly basis, power is sold or bought through ISO-New England's settlement process to balance the Company's resource output and load requirements. On a monthly basis, the Company aggregates the hourly sales and purchases through ISO-New England and records them as Operating Revenue or Purchased Power, respectively. Power Resources - Future The Company's long-term power forecast shows energy purchase and production amounts in excess of load requirements in most periods through 2011. Because of this general surplus, the Company enters into forward sale transactions from time to time to reduce price volatility of forecasted net power costs. At times, such as when Vermont Yankee is not operating, the Company may also enter into forward purchase transactions. In November 2004, the Company entered two separate forward sale transactions, one through October 2006 for an average of about 37 MW per hour and another through December 2008 for an average of about 15 MW. Delivery under the first contract is contingent on Vermont Yankee output, eliminating the risks of sourcing the sale when Vermont Yankee is not operating. The Company expects that any future forward sales will also be contingent on Vermont Yankee output, or will be for relatively small volumes. Based on existing commitments and contracts, the Company expects that net purchased power and production fuel costs will average $124 million per year for the years 2006 through 2010. These projections are dependent, in part, on wholesale power market prices. Because of the Company's excess supply, increases in the wholesale price should generally reduce net power costs, while decreases should generally increase costs. Our power contract with Page 13 of 153 VYNPC for purchase of Vermont Yankee plant output ends in March 2012, and deliveries under the Hydro-Quebec contract are reduced significantly in 2012. These contracts supported about 84 percent of our total energy (mWh) purchases in 2005. Also see Regulation and Competition - New Developments above for discussion of Act 61, Renewable Energy, Efficiency, Transmission and Vermont's Energy Future. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for various power contracts as derivatives under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended and interpreted and SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, (collectively "SFAS No. 133"). These statements require that derivatives be recorded on the balance sheets at fair value. The Company's long-term contracts for the purchase of power from VYNPC and Independent Power Producers do not meet the definition of a derivative under the requirements of SFAS No. 133 because delivery of power under these contracts is contingent on plant output. Additionally, the Company's long-term power contract with Hydro-Quebec does not meet the definition of a derivative because there is no defined notional amount. The Company has a long-term purchased power contract that allows the seller to repurchase specified amounts of power with advance notice (Hydro-Quebec Sellback #3). This contract has been determined to be a derivative under SFAS No. 133. The derivative's estimated fair value was an unrealized loss of $5.0 million at December 31, 2005 and $5.7 million at December 31, 2004. The estimated fair value of this derivative is valued using a binomial tree model, and quoted market data when available along with appropriate valuation methodologies. The Company has a long-term forward sale contract for the sale of about 15 MW per hour, or a total of 522,544 mWh, beginning November 17, 2004 through December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2005 about 141,800 mWh have been delivered under the contract. This contract has been determined to be a derivative under SFAS No. 133. The Company utilizes over-the-counter quotations or broker quotes at the end of the reporting period for determining the fair value of this contract. The derivative's estimated fair value was an unrealized loss of $12.9 million at December 31, 2005 and a $0.4 million unrealized gain at December 31, 2004. The Company records derivative contracts on the balance sheet at fair value. Based on a PSB-approved Accounting Order, the Company records the change in fair value of these derivatives as deferred charges or deferred credits, depending on whether the fair value is an unrealized loss or gain. The corresponding offsets are recorded as current and long-term assets or liabilities depending on the duration. NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING COSTS The Company has a 1.7303 percent joint-ownership interest in Millstone Unit #3. The Company is one of several sponsor companies with ownership interests in Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic, and is responsible for paying its ownership percentage of decommissioning and all other costs for each plant. These companies have permanently shut down generating activities and are conducting decommissioning activities. The Company's obligations related to the eventual decommissioning of the Vermont Yankee plant ceased when the plant was sold to Entergy on July 31, 2002. Millstone Unit #3 As a joint owner of the Millstone Unit #3 facility, in which Dominion Nuclear Corporation ("DNC") is the lead owner with about 93.47 percent of the plant joint-ownership, the Company is responsible for its share of nuclear decommissioning costs. The Company has an external trust dedicated to funding its joint-ownership share of future decommissioning costs. DNC has suspended contributions to the Millstone Unit #3 Trust Fund because the minimum NRC funding requirements are being met or exceeded. The Company has also suspended contributions to the Trust Fund, but could choose to renew funding at its own discretion as long as the minimum requirement is met or exceeded. If a need for additional decommissioning funding is necessary, the Company will be obligated to resume contributions to the Trust Fund. In January 2004, DNC filed, on behalf of itself and the two minority owners, including the Company, a lawsuit against the DOE seeking recovery of costs related to storage of spent nuclear fuel arising from the failure of the DOE to comply with its obligations to commence accepting such fuel in 1998. The schedule for further proceedings in the lawsuit is not known at this time. Millstone Unit #3 spent fuel from the beginning of commercial operations in Page 14 of 153 1986 resides in the spent fuel pool. The Company continues to pay its share of the DOE Spent Fuel assessment expenses levied on actual generation and will share in recovery from the lawsuit, if any, in proportion to its ownership interest. On November 28, 2005, the NRC renewed the operating license for Millstone Unit #3 for an additional 20 years. This extends the licensed life from November 2025 to November 2045. Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic collect decommissioning and closure costs through FERC-approved wholesale rates charged under power agreements with several New England utilities, including the Company. Information related to decommissioning and closure costs, including the Company's share of estimated future payments for each plant, follows (dollars in millions): Date of Study Total Expenditures (a) Remaining Obligation (b) Revenue Requirements (c) Company Share (d) Maine Yankee Connecticut Yankee Yankee Atomic 2003 2003 2005 $522.8 $776.2 $551.3 $144.0 $264.9 $174.1 $241.3 $515.6 $148.9 $4.8 $10.3 $5.2 (a) Total cumulative decommissioning expenditures incurred through 2005, net of proceeds received from various legal matters settled prior to December 31, 2005. (b) Estimated remaining decommissioning costs in 2005 dollars for the period 2006 through 2023 for Maine Yankee and Connecticut Yankee, and through 2022 for Yankee Atomic. (c) Estimated future payments required by Sponsor companies to recover estimated decommissioning and all other costs for 2006 and forward, in nominal dollars. For Maine Yankee and Connecticut Yankee includes collections for required contributions to spent fuel funds as described below. Yankee Atomic has already collected and paid these required contributions. (d) The Company's share of revenue requirements based on its ownership percentage of each plant. The Company's share of Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic estimated costs are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as regulatory assets and nuclear decommissioning liabilities (current and non-current). These amounts are adjusted when revised estimates are provided by the companies. At December 31, 2005, the Company had regulatory assets of about $4.8 million related to Maine Yankee, $10.3 million related to Connecticut Yankee and $5.9 million related to Yankee Atomic (including about $0.7 million for incremental decommissioning costs already paid by the Company that are now being recovered in retail rates pursuant to the Rate Order). These estimated costs are being collected from the Company's customers through existing retail rate tariffs. Pursuant to the Rate Order, beginning April 1, 2006, the Company will defer any differences between actual decommissioning cost payments and amounts included for rate recovery, until its next rate proceeding. Historically, the Company's share of these costs has been recovered from its retail customers through PSB-approved rates. Based on the regulatory process, Management believes its share of decommissioning and closure costs for each plant will continue to be recovered through the regulatory process. There is a risk, however, that FERC may not allow full recovery of Connecticut Yankee's increased costs in wholesale rates as described below. The following is a summary of the status of activities at each of the plants. See Note 2 - Investments in Affiliates for additional information. Department of Energy ("DOE") Litigation: Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic are seeking recovery of fuel storage-related costs stemming from the default of the DOE under the 1983 fuel disposal contracts that were mandated by the United States Congress under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982. On September 9, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision involving another nuclear utility's spent fuel that, among other things, found plaintiffs in "partial breach" cases, such as Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic, were not entitled to future damages. The date or event beyond which damages were to be considered "future damages" was not clarified by the Court. The ruling does not bar a plaintiff from seeking future damages in subsequent proceedings after the damages have been incurred. In response to the trial judge's request for supplemental briefing on the impact of the future-damages ruling, Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic contended that the Court should award damages through 2002 initially and direct the parties to promptly pursue additional proceedings for recovery of post-2002 incurred damages. The DOE contended that all Page 15 of 153 three companies could recover damages in the ongoing proceeding only through the date when they filed suit in June 1998. On February 28, 2006, all three companies asked the Court to allow amended damage claim filings to cover the period ending December 31, 2002. The proposed amended damage claims are about $79 million for Maine Yankee, $82.8 million for Connecticut Yankee and $101.8 million for Yankee Atomic. This compares to original claims of $160 million for Maine Yankee, $197.1 million for Connecticut Yankee and $191 million for Yankee Atomic. Due to the complexity of the issues and the possibility of appeals, the three companies cannot predict the amount of damages to be received or the timing of the final determination of such damages. None of the companies have included any allowance for potential recovery of these claims in their FERC-filed cost estimates. Maine Yankee: The Company has a 2 percent ownership interest in Maine Yankee. Beginning November 1, 2004, Maine Yankee's billings to sponsor companies have been based on its September 16, 2004 FERC-approved settlement, which provides for recovery of Maine Yankee's forecasted costs of providing service through a formula rate contained in its power contracts through October 31, 2008 and replenishment of the DOE Spent Fuel Obligation through collections from November 2008 through October 2010. On October 3, 2005, Maine Yankee completed its decommissioning efforts and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC") amended its operating license for operation of the Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation. In October 2005, Maine Yankee provided an updated forecast for ongoing costs which reflects an estimated increase of about $10.1 million. The increase is primarily related to higher-than-expected interest expense. The Company's share of these estimated increased costs is about $0.2 million. Connecticut Yankee: The Company has a 2 percent ownership interest in Connecticut Yankee. Costs billed by Connecticut Yankee are based on FERC-filed rates effective February 1, 2005 for collection through 2010. Before February 1, 2005 costs were based on FERC-approved rates that became effective September 1, 2000 for collection through 2007. Connecticut Yankee is involved in a contract dispute and a FERC rate case filing as described below. Bechtel Litigation: On February 27, 2006, Connecticut Yankee and Bechtel participated in a mediation process related to a contract dispute that resulted in default termination of the decommissioning services contract between Connecticut Yankee and Bechtel effective July 2003. On March 7, 2006, Connecticut Yankee and Bechtel entered a settlement, the material terms of which are: the litigation shall be terminated by dismissals with prejudice of all claims and counterclaims, with each party bearing its own costs; Bechtel shall release all liens, garnishments and attachments that it has obtained against Connecticut Yankee assets; Bechtel shall petition FERC to withdraw its intervention in the Connecticut Yankee rate case; the parties shall exchange mutual general releases including releases of Connecticut Yankee shareholders and their affiliates; Bechtel shall pay Connecticut Yankee the sum of $15.0 million; and Connecticut Yankee shall withdraw its termination of the decommissioning contract for default, and the contract shall be deemed terminated by agreement. At this time, the Company cannot predict the effect, if any, this settlement will have related to the FERC litigation described below. To the extent any amounts of the settlement payment are ultimately returned to the Company, these amounts will be credited for the future benefit of retail ratepayers. FERC Rate Case Filing: In December 2003, Connecticut Yankee established an updated estimate of decommissioning and plant closure costs for the period 2000 through 2023 ("2003 Estimate"). The 2003 Estimate of about $831 million represents an aggregate increase of about $395 million compared to the cost estimate in Connecticut Yankee's 2000 FERC rate case settlement (stated in 2003 dollars). In the Filing, Connecticut Yankee sought to increase its annual decommissioning collections from $16.7 million to $93 million through 2010 beginning January 1, 2005. The CT DPUC and Bechtel intervened in this rate case, and both filed testimony in the FERC proceeding claiming that Connecticut Yankee was imprudent in its management of the decommissioning project. On November 22, 2005, the ALJ issued an Initial Decision that found: there was no evidence of Connecticut Yankee imprudence. The only adjustment to Connecticut Yankee's decommissioning charges required by the Initial Decision relates to the escalation rate, which is the factor used to translate the 2003 Estimate (stated in 2003 dollars) into spending projections and decommissioning charges. The Initial Decision found that Connecticut Yankee should recalculate its decommissioning charges to reflect a lower escalation rate. The Initial Decision is subject to review by FERC. Page 16 of 153 The Company continues to believe that FERC will approve recovery of Connecticut Yankee's increased costs in wholesale rates based on the nature of costs and previous rulings at other nuclear companies. Once approved by FERC, the Company believes it is unlikely that the PSB would not allow these FERC-approved costs to be recovered in retail rates. However, there is a risk, notwithstanding the ALJ Initial Decision, that some portion of the increased costs may not be recovered, or will have to be refunded if recovered, as a result of the FERC proceedings. If FERC disallows cost recovery in wholesale rates, the Company anticipates that the PSB would disallow these costs for recovery in retail rates as well. The timing, amount and outcome of the FERC rate case filing cannot be predicted at this time. Yankee Atomic: The Company has a 3.5 percent ownership interest in Yankee Atomic. Costs billed by Yankee Atomic are based on a November 23, 2005 FERC filing primarily to recover increased costs associated with remediation of non-hazardous and hazardous waste volumes in excess of estimates in the previously concluded rate case. Prior to this filing, costs billed by Yankee Atomic were based on its April 4, 2003 FERC-approved rate filing. The decommissioning effort is largely complete and final site-work is expected to conclude in 2006. Following the completion of decommissioning, the remaining on-site function will be to operate the Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation. On November 23, 2005, Yankee Atomic submitted an application to FERC for increased decommissioning charges based on its updated estimate of costs of completing the decommissioning effort. Yankee Atomic proposed to collect decommissioning charges of about $54.9 million in 2006 and $23.5 million annually for 2007 through 2010. This compares to previously scheduled annual charges of about $12.8 million for 2006 through 2010. Hearings on the FERC rate case began in December 2005, and several parties including the DPS filed motions to intervene and protest. On January 1, 2006, FERC issued an Order: 1) accepting Yankee Atomic's rate filing; 2) permitting the proposed rates to go into effect, subject to refund, as of February 1, 2006; and 3) referring the parties to a settlement judge to facilitate a possible settlement. The Company's share of the rate increase amounts to about $1.5 million for 2006 and $0.4 million annually for 2007 through 2010. Nuclear Liability and Insurance The Price-Anderson Act ("Act") currently limits public liability from a single incident at a nuclear power plant to about $10 billion. The Act has been renewed five times since it was first enacted in 1957, and expired in August 2003. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, enacted in August 2005, extends the Act for 20 years and provides a framework for immediate, no-fault insurance coverage for the public in the event of a nuclear reactor accident. The Act consists of two levels of coverage. The primary level provides liability insurance coverage of $300 million. If this amount is not sufficient to cover claims arising from an accident, the second level, referred to as secondary financial protection, applies. For the second level, each nuclear plant must pay a retrospective premium equal to its proportionate share of the excess loss, up to a maximum of $95.8 million per reactor per incident, limited to a maximum annual assessment of $15 million. These assessments will be adjusted for inflation. Currently, based on its joint-ownership interest in Millstone Unit #3, the Company could become liable for about $0.3 million of such maximum assessment per incident per year. The Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic plants have received exemptions from participating in the secondary financial protection program under the Act. TRANSMISSION VELCO VELCO engages in the operation of a high-voltage transmission system, which interconnects electric utilities in the State, including areas served by the Company. VELCO provides transmission services for the State of Vermont, acting by and through the DPS, and for all of the electric distribution utilities in the State of Vermont. VELCO is reimbursed for its costs (as defined in the agreements relating thereto) for transmission of power for such entities. The Company, as the largest electric distribution utility in Vermont, is the major user of VELCO's transmission system. The Company owns 48.5 percent of VELCO's outstanding Class B voting common stock, 31.45 percent of VELCO's outstanding Class C non-voting common stock (approved by the FERC on July 15, 2002), and 48.03 percent of VELCO's outstanding Class C preferred stock. Shares of Class C preferred stock have no voting rights except the limited right to vote VELCO's shares of common stock in VETCO if certain dividend requirements are not met. Page 17 of 153 NEPOOL Arrangements VELCO is a participant with all of the major electric utilities in New England in NEPOOL, acting for itself and as agent for the Company and 21 other Vermont utilities. The generating and transmission facilities of all of the participants are coordinated on a New England-wide basis through a central dispatching agency to assure their operation and maintenance in accordance with proper standards of reliability, and to attain the maximum practicable economy for all of the participants through the interchange of economy and emergency power. On March 24, 2004, FERC conditionally approved the filing made by ISO-New England and the New England transmission owners to create a Regional Transmission Organization ("RTO") for New England. The RTO parties submitted a compliance filing to FERC in December 2004, and the RTO began operating on February 1, 2005. Currently, about one-third of the cost of New England's existing and new high-voltage transmission system (115 kV looped facilities), Pool Transmission Facility ("PTF"), is shared by all New England utilities, and by 2008 all of the PTF costs will be shared. Under the RTO, Highgate and related facilities, owned by a number of Vermont utilities and VELCO, are classified as Highgate Transmission Facility ("HTF") with a five-year phase-in of Regional Network Service ("RNS") reimbursement treatment. At the end of the phase-in period, the Company's net cost for Highgate will be based on our NEPOOL load ratio (about 2 percent) rather than our 46 percent ownership share of the facilities. At this time, VELCO is planning several significant upgrades, portions of which have been approved by NEPOOL for shared cost treatment in New England-wide rates for transmission services, including the so-called Northwest Reliability Project ("NRP"). The estimated cost of the NRP is about $228 million, including a 15 percent contingency, which represents a $78 million increase from the original estimate that was completed in early 2003. Citing the cost increase, certain interveners asked the PSB to reopen the proceeding in which VELCO received the overall Certificate of Public Good for the NRP. The PSB declined to reopen the proceeding, and the Vermont Supreme Court subsequently denied certain interveners request for an appeal. Although the RTO cost-sharing approach will limit the Company's costs related to Vermont transmission upgrades, the Company will also be required to pay a share of projects undertaken to support region-wide reliability elsewhere in New England. The net economic effect on the Company is expected to be beneficial, as the sharing approach provides cost and reliability benefits in providing service to customers, because the Company's load share is a small fraction of New England's load, and the facilities upgrades VELCO is planning improve the reliability and efficiency of the transmission network. Certain future transmission facilities will not qualify for cost sharing, and those costs will be charged locally rather than regionally; the Company's share of such costs will be affected by FERC-approved cost-allocation process contained in VELCO's and the Company's tariffs and agreements. In addition to the NRP, VELCO is working with the Company on a project to solve load serving and reliability issues related to a 46-kV transmission line extending from Bennington to Brattleboro, Vermont, referred to by the Company as the Southern Loop. It serves about 25 percent of the Company's load. The Company is evaluating alternatives to resolve the Southern Loop issues, including significant upgrades to the transmission system as well as non-transmission alternatives. Certain alternatives would provide regional reliability benefits and therefore some of the upgrades could be eligible for cost sharing on a New England-wide basis under the current regional tariff. The estimated total cost of these system upgrades ranges from $70 million to $110 million with construction likely to begin on some components of the project in 2007 or 2008. In October 2005, the Company initiated a public involvement process to gain input on how best to improve and ensure reliable electric service in southern Vermont. A Utility Search Conference was held in southern Vermont at the end of January 2006. The participants identified public preferences for solutions and processes to solve the Southern Loop problems. The Company and VELCO accepted the public recommendations and agreed to work with a smaller community working group to develop ideas and implement solutions. Capitalization At December 31, 2005, VELCO has authorized 430,000 shares of Class B common stock, $100 par value, of which 219,977 shares were outstanding; 20,000 shares of Class C common stock, $100 par value, of which 19,901 were outstanding; and 125,000 shares of Class C preferred stock, $100 par value, of which 97,068 shares were outstanding. In addition, four issues of First Mortgage Bonds, aggregating $58,521,000 issued under an Indenture of Mortgage dated as of September 1, 1957, as amended, between VELCO and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (the "VELCO Indenture") were authorized and outstanding at December 31, 2005. The issuance of bonds under the VELCO Indenture is unlimited in amount but is subject to certain restrictions. Page 18 of 153 Management The Company and GMP entered into a Three-Party Transmission Agreement, dated November 21, 1969. Under this Agreement, as amended, the Company and GMP agreed to pay transmission charges in an aggregate amount sufficient, with VELCO's other revenues, to pay all of VELCO's expenses including capital costs. VELCO's Bonds are secured by a first mortgage on the major part of VELCO's transmission properties and by the assignment to the Trustee of the Three-Party Agreement, the Three-Party Transmission Agreement and certain other contracts as specified in the VELCO Indenture. VELCO operated pursuant to the terms of the 1985 Four-Party Agreement (as amended) with the Company and two other major distribution companies in Vermont, which provided that although the Company owned the majority of voting stock of VELCO, it would not exercise its voting rights to assert control, and also provided the utilities with an option to purchase VELCO assets. The Company no longer owns a majority of the voting stock of VELCO and the 1985 Four-Party Agreement, including the option to purchase assets, has been allowed to terminate without renewal. VETCO In connection with importing Canadian power, VELCO created a wholly owned subsidiary, VETCO, to construct, finance, own and operate the Vermont portion of the transmission line that connects the Hydro-Quebec lines at the Canadian border to lines of New England Electric Transmission Corporation, a subsidiary of National Grid USA, formerly New England Electric System, at the New Hampshire border on the Connecticut River. VETCO entered into a Capital Funds Agreement with VELCO pursuant to which VETCO may request up to $12,500,000 (of which $10,000,000 was contributed as of December 31, 2005) of capital contributions from VELCO. VETCO also entered into Transmission Line Support Agreements with 20 New England utilities, including VELCO as representative for 14 Vermont utilities, pursuant to which those utilities have agreed to pay the transmission line costs, whether or not the line is operational. VELCO, as representative, has entered into a similar agreement with New England Electric Transmission Corporation with respect to the New Hampshire portion of the DC transmission line and the DC/AC converter station. Pursuant to a Vermont Participation Agreement and a Capital Funds Support Agreement with VELCO and 14 Vermont electric distribution utilities, including the Company, assume their pro rata share (based upon 1980 sales) of the benefits and obligations of VELCO under the Support Agreements and the VETCO Capital Funds Agreement. VETCO has authorized 10 shares of common stock, $100 par value, which were outstanding on December 31, 2005 and owned by VELCO, with each share having one vote. During 1986 VETCO paid off its construction financing by issuing $37,000,000 of secured notes, maturing in 2006, and receiving a $9,999,000 equity contribution from VELCO. The notes are secured by a First Mortgage on the major part of VETCO's transmission properties and by the assignment of its rights under the Support Agreements. Phase I and Phase II The Company participated with other electric utilities in the construction of the Phase I Hydro-Quebec interconnection transmission facilities in northeastern Vermont, which were completed at a total cost of about $140 million. Under a support agreement relating to participation in the facilities, the Company is obligated to pay its 4.55 percent share of Phase I Hydro-Quebec capital costs over a 20-year recovery period ending in 2006. The Company also participated in the construction of Phase II Hydro-Quebec transmission facilities constructed throughout New England, which were completed at a total cost of about $487 million. Under a similar support agreement, the New England participants, including the Company, contracted to pay their proportionate share of the total cost of constructing, owning and operating the Phase II facilities, including capital costs. The Company is obligated to pay its 5.132 percent share of Phase II Hydro-Quebec capital costs over a 25-year recovery period ending in 2015. These agreements meet the capital lease accounting requirements under SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases. All costs under these agreements are recorded as purchased transmission expense in accordance with the Company's ratemaking policies. Future expected payments will range from about $3.2 million to $2.7 million annually from 2006 through 2015 and will decline thereafter. Approximately $0.6 million of the annual costs are reimbursed to the Company pursuant to the NEPOOL Open Access Transmission Tariff. ENERGY CONSERVATION AND LOAD MANAGEMENT The primary purpose of Conservation and Load Management programs is to offset need for long-term power supply and delivery resources that are more expensive to purchase or develop than customer-efficiency programs, including unpriced external factors such as emissions and economic risk. Page 19 of 153 The Vermont Energy Efficiency Utility ("EEU"), created by the State of Vermont, began operation in January 2000. The Company has a continuing obligation to provide customer information and referrals, coordination of customer service, power quality, and any other distribution utility functions, which may intersect with the EEU's utility activities. The Company has retained the obligation to deliver demand side management programs targeted at deferral of its transmission and distribution projects, known as Distributed Utility Planning ("DUP"). DUP is designed to ensure that delivery services are provided at least cost and to create the most efficient transmission and distribution system possible. An initial set of rules for DUP was filed by the parties in Docket No. 6290 as a Memorandum of Understanding, which was approved by the PSB on January 15, 2003. It includes: 1) an energy efficiency screening tool; 2) an agreement on default planning assumptions that are subject to modification semi-annually as well as changes to fit specific area conditions; 3) continued collaboration of the parties to update the rules as necessary and to share information; and 4) the creation of ongoing area specific collaboratives ("ASC") to examine resource investment options, including the possible use of distributed generation, energy conservation and load management, to resolve the Company's potentially constrained transmission or distribution areas. The Company has been participating in five such ASCs. The PSB is currently reviewing the EEU's budget level and its policies that determine where investments are made as required by legislation enacted. The PSB is also examining the role of energy efficiency to defer statewide transmission upgrades in Docket 7081. Docket 7081 was established as part of the PSB Order approving VELCO's Northwest Reliability Project described above. DIVERSIFICATION CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. to customers in Vermont and New Hampshire. On December 20, 2005, CRC sold all of its interest in Catamount to Diamond Castle. Cash proceeds from the sale amounted to $59.25 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $5.6 million. See Part II, Item 8, Note 3 - Discontinued Operations. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION Local Union No. 300, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, represents operating and maintenance employees of the Company. On December 31, 2005 the Company had 529 employees, of which 218 are represented by the union. On December 29, 2004, the Company and its employees represented by the union agreed to a new four-year contract, which expires on December 31, 2008. The new contract provided for a net general wage increase of 3.5 percent effective January 2, 2005, January 1, 2006, December 31, 2006 and December 30, 2007. It also included an increase in the Company's 401K match from 4 to 4.25 percent of eligible compensation beginning January 1, 2007. SEASONAL NATURE OF BUSINESS The Company's kilowatt-hour sales and revenues are typically higher in the winter and summer than in the spring and fall, as sales tend to vary with weather. Winter recreational activities, longer hours of darkness and heating loads from cold weather contribute to higher sales in the winter, while air conditioning generates higher sales in the summer. Consumption is least in the spring and fall, when there is little heating or cooling load. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The Company's capital expenditures totaled about $17.6 million in 2005, $20.2 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. The Company's capital expenditures are expected to range from $40 million to $50 million for the two-year period between 2006 and 2007. This estimate is subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary from this estimate. Page 20 of 153 OFFICERS The following sets forth the present Executive Officers of the Company. There are no family relationships among the executive officers. The term of each officer is for one year or until a successor is elected. Officers are normally elected annually. Executive officers of the registrant: Name and Age Office Officer Since Robert H. Young, 58 President and Chief Executive Officer 1987 William J. Deehan, 53 Vice President - Power Planning and Regulatory Affairs 1991 Joan F. Gamble, 48 Vice President - Strategic Change and Business Services 1998 Joseph M. Kraus, 50 Senior Vice President - Operations, Engineering and Customer Service 1987 Dale A. Rocheleau, 47 Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Affairs, and Corporate Secretary 2003 Edmund F. Ryan, 48 Acting Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 2005 Mr. Young joined the Company in 1987. He was elected Senior Vice President - Finance and Administration in 1988. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) commencing in 1993 and was elected Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) commencing in 1995. Mr. Young also serves as President, CEO, and Chair of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; AgEnergy, Inc.; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. He is also Director of the following CVPS affiliates: Vermont Electric Power Company, Inc., Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation; Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc.; and, The Home Service Store, Inc. Mr. Deehan joined the Company in 1985. Prior to being elected to his present position in May 2001, he served as Vice President - Regulatory Affairs and Strategic Analysis. He previously served as Assistant Vice President - Rates and Economic Analysis from April 1991 to May 1996. Ms. Gamble joined the Company in 1989. Prior to being elected to her present position in August 2001, she was Director of Marketing Research & Planning from 1989 to 1996; Director of Strategic and Policy Planning from 1996 to September 1997; Director of Human Resources and Strategic Planning from September 1997 to May 1998; and, Assistant Vice President Human Resources and Strategic Planning from May 1998 to May 2000. She previously served as Vice President - Human Resources and Strategic Planning from May 2001 to August 2001. Ms. Gamble also serves as Vice President - Strategic Change and Business Services for the following CVPS subsidiary: Eversant Corporation. She serves as a Director for the following CVPS subsidiaries: Eversant Corporation; AgEnergy, Inc.; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Kraus joined the Company in 1981. Prior to being elected to his present position of Senior Vice President Operations, Engineering and Customer Service, he served as Senior Vice President Engineering and Operations, General Counsel, and Secretary from May 2003 until November 2003. He previously served as Senior Vice President Customer Service, Secretary, and General Counsel from May 2001 to May 2003 and he served as Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel commencing in 1996 and Corporate Secretary and General Counsel commencing in 1994. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel from 1999 to May 2001. Mr. Kraus serves as Director of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; AgEnergy, Inc.; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Rocheleau joined the Company in November 2003 as Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Affairs, and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Director and Attorney at Law from 1992 to 2003 with Downs Rachlin Martin, PLLC. Mr. Rocheleau serves as Director, Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Page 21 of 153 Affairs and Corporate Secretary of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; AgEnergy, Inc.; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Ryan joined the Company in 2003. Prior to being appointed to his present position of Acting Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, he served as the Director of Internal Audit from August 2003 to October 2005. He previously served as Controller at The Home Service Store, Inc., a CVPS affiliate, from May 2000 to August 2003. Mr. Ryan serves as Director, Acting Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; AgEnergy, Inc.; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Item 1A. Risk Factors We regularly identify, monitor and assess our exposure to risk and seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our energy business. However, there are risks that are beyond our control or that cannot be limited cost-effectively or that may occur despite our risk mitigation strategies. The risk factors discussed below could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks related to timing and adequacy of rate relief: We are regulated by the PSB, the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control and FERC, with respect to rates charged for service, accounting, financing and other matters pertaining to regulated operations. Electric utilities are subject to certain accounting standards that apply only to regulated businesses. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation ("SFAS No. 71"), for our regulated Vermont service territory and FERC-regulated wholesale business. If we determine that we no longer meet the criteria under SFAS No. 71, the accounting impact would be an extraordinary charge to operations of about $36.1 million on a pre-tax basis as of December 31, 2005, assuming no stranded cost recovery would be allowed through a rate mechanism. We would also be required to determine any impairment to the carrying costs of deregulated plant. While Vermont does not have a fuel or power adjustment clause, the PSB has previously approved deferral of extraordinary costs incurred that might normally be expensed by unregulated businesses in order to match these expenses with future revenues. Fair regulatory treatment is fundamental to maintaining our financial stability. Rates must be set at levels to recover costs, including a market rate of return to equity and debt holders in order to attract capital. Risks related to our current credit rating, which is below investment grade: In June 2005, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered our corporate credit rating to below investment grade. Fitch also lowered its ratings on our senior secured debt and preferred stock. According to both agencies, these actions were taken primarily as a result of the Rate Order described in Rate Developments above. The downgrade could hamper our operational flexibility by restricting or increasing the cost of future access to capital, and imposing additional requirements to provide performance assurance associated with certain power purchase and sale transactions. The downgrade has also limited the number of counterparties with which we can transact power purchase and sale transactions, which could increase our future power costs. We believe that restoration of our credit rating is critical, not only to the long-term success of the Company, but to Vermont's energy future. While our credit rating remains below investment-grade, the cost of capital, which is ultimately passed on to our customers, will be greater than it otherwise would be. That, combined with other collateral requirements from creditors and for power purchases makes restoration of our credit rating critical. Looking ahead, as long-term power contracts with Hydro-Quebec and Vermont Yankee begin to expire five to seven years from now, these ratings become even more important. Since we are the largest electric utility in the state serving the largest number of customers, we shoulder a responsibility to ensure we can obtain needed power from the most environmentally benign sources at the best prices possible. That would be very difficult to accomplish while rated below investment-grade. Risks related to our power supply and wholesale power market prices: Our material power supply contracts are principally with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC. These relatively low-priced contracts comprise the majority of our total annual energy (mWh) purchases. If one or both of these sources becomes unavailable for a period of time, there could be exposure to high wholesale power prices and that amount could be material. Additionally, this could Page 22 of 153 also significantly impact liquidity due to the potential high cost of replacement power and performance assurance collateral requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. We could seek emergency rate relief from our regulators if this occurred. We sometimes experience energy delivery deficiencies under the power contract with Hydro-Quebec as a result of outages or other problems with the transmission interconnection facilities over which we schedule deliveries. We are also responsible for procuring replacement energy during periods of scheduled or unscheduled outages at the Vermont Yankee plant. In both cases, we purchase replacement energy, if needed, from third parties in New England or through ISO-New England. Although our retail rates include a provision for estimated replacement power costs, average market prices at the times when we purchase replacement energy might be significantly higher than amounts included for recovery in our retail rates. Our contract for power purchases from VYNPC ends in 2012, but there is a risk that the plant could be shut down earlier than expected if Entergy determines that it is not economical to continue operating the plant under the current regulatory environment. Our contract for power purchases from Hydro-Quebec ends in 2016, although the level of deliveries will be reduced significantly in 2012. There is a risk that future sources available to replace these contracts may not be as reliable and the price of such replacement power could be significantly higher than what we have in place today. Risks related to liquidity: We believe that cash on hand, including available-for-sale securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our business for the next 12 months. Based on our current cash forecasts, the borrowing capacity under our $25.0 million credit facility will likely provide sufficient liquidity at least through 2007. Material risks to cash flow from operations include: loss of retail sales revenue from unusual weather; slower-than-anticipated load growth and unfavorable economic conditions; increases in net power costs largely due to lower-than-anticipated margins on sales revenue from excess power or an unexpected power source interruption; required prepayments for power purchases; and increases in performance assurance collateral requirements, primarily as a result of high power market prices. Risks related to decommissioning of nuclear plants in which we have an interest: Nuclear decommissioning costs related to our ownership interests in Maine Yankee, Connecticut Yankee and Yankee Atomic have significantly increased over the past several years. Although we continue to believe that these costs will be recovered in retail and wholesale rates, based on the regulatory process, there is a risk that the PSB could disallow these costs for recovery in retail rates, if it or FERC determines that such costs were imprudent. We have a joint ownership interest in Millstone Unit #3 and are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission the plant. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. Risks related to the economic condition of our customers: An economic downturn and increased cost of energy supply could adversely affect energy consumption and therefore impact our results of operations. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. A recession or prolonged lag of a subsequent recovery could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 