Risk Factors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Unresolved Staff Comments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 12 14 14 14 15 PART II Item 5. Item 6. Item 7. Item 7A. Item 8. Item 9. Item 9A. Item 9B. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Controls and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Other Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 16 17 45 47 98 98 99 PART III Item 10. Item 11. Item 12. Item 13. Item 14. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . . . . . . . . . Principal Accounting Fees and Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 100 100 100 100 PART IV Item 15. Signatures Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 123 Page 2 of 123 PART I Item 1. Business (a) General Description of Business Central Vermont Public Service Corporation (the "Company" or "we" or "our"), incorporated under the laws of Vermont on August 20, 1929, is engaged in the purchase, production, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. The Company is the largest electric utility in Vermont, serving about 155,000 retail customers in nearly three-quarters of the towns, villages and cities in Vermont. The Company's wholly owned subsidiaries include: Custom Investment Corporation ("Custom"), which was formed for the purpose of holding passive investments, including the stock of the Company's subsidiaries that invest in regulated business opportunities. On October 13, 2003, the Company transferred its shares of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation ("VYNPC") to Custom. The transfer to Custom does not affect the Company's rights and obligations related to VYNPC. C.V. Realty, Inc., a real estate company whose purpose is to own, acquire, buy, sell and lease real and personal property and interests therein related to the utility business. Central Vermont Public Service Corporation - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc. which was created for the purpose of financing and constructing a hydroelectric facility in Vermont, which became operational September 1, 1984 and has been leased and operated by the Company since its in-service date. Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc. ("Connecticut Valley"), incorporated under the laws of New Hampshire on December 9, 1948, distributed and sold electricity in parts of New Hampshire bordering the Connecticut River. On January 1, 2004, Connecticut Valley completed the sale of substantially all of its plant assets and its franchise to Public Service Company of New Hampshire. Connecticut Valley no longer conducts business as an electric utility in New Hampshire. Catamount Resources Corporation ("CRC") formed for the purpose of holding the Company's subsidiaries that invest in unregulated business opportunities. CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. to customers in Vermont and New Hampshire. CRC had a wholly owned subsidiary, Catamount Energy Corporation ("Catamount") that invested primarily in wind energy in the United States and the United Kingdom. In December 2005, CRC completed the sale of all of its interest in Catamount to CEC Wind Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company established by Diamond Castle Holdings ("Diamond Castle"). The Company's equity ownership interests as of December 31, 2006 are summarized below. These are also described in more detail in Part II, Item 8, Note 4 - Investments in Affiliates. The Company owns 58.85 percent of the common stock of VYNPC, which was initially formed by a group of New England utilities for the purpose of constructing and operating a nuclear-powered generating plant in Vernon, Vermont. On July 31, 2002, VYNPC sold the plant to Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC ("ENVY"). The sale agreement included a purchased power contract ("PPA") between VYNPC and ENVY. Under the PPA, VYNPC pays ENVY for generation at fixed rates, and in turn, bills the PPA charges from ENVY with certain residual costs of service through a FERC tariff to the Company and the other VYNPC sponsors. The Company owns 47.05 percent of the common stock and 48.03 percent of the preferred stock of Vermont Electric Power Company, Inc. ("VELCO"), which owned the high-voltage transmission system in Vermont. In June 2006, VELCO transferred substantially all of its business operations to Vermont Transco LLC ("Transco"). VELCO has a 30.8 percent equity interest in Transco and manages the operations of Transco under a Management Services Agreement. VELCO's wholly owned subsidiary, Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc. ("VETCO"), was formed to finance, construct and operate the Vermont portion of the 450 kV DC transmission line connecting the Province of Quebec with Vermont and New England. The Company owns 29.86 percent of Class A Units of Transco, which was formed by VELCO and its owners in the second quarter of 2006. Transco now owns and operates the high-voltage transmission system in Vermont. VELCO and its employees now manage the operations of Transco under a Management Services Agreement between VELCO and Transco. The Company's total direct and indirect interest in Transco is 44.34 percent. The Company owns 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company ("Maine Yankee"), 2 percent of the outstanding common stock of Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company ("Connecticut Yankee") and 3.5 percent of the outstanding common stock of Yankee Atomic Electric Company ("Yankee Atomic"). All of the plants have been permanently shut down and have completed or are nearing completion of decommissioning. Page 3 of 123 The Company also owns small generating facilities and has joint ownership interests in certain generating facilities. These are described in Sources and Availability of Power Supply below. (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments The Company's principal operating segments are the regulated utility business and its non-regulated businesses. See Part II Item 8, Note 18 - Segment Reporting for financial information regarding the Company's operating segments. (c) Narrative Description of Business Principal Products and Services The Company's operating revenues consist primarily of retail and resale sales. Retail sales are comprised of a diversified customer mix including residential, commercial and industrial customers. Sales to the five largest retail customers receiving electric service from the Company accounted for about 6 percent of the Company's annual retail electric revenues for 2006, 2005 and 2004. Resale sales are related to long-term sales to third parties in New England, sales in the energy markets administered by ISO-New England and short-term system capacity sales. The Company's operating revenues and energy sales as of December 31 consisted of the following: Revenue mWh Sales 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Retail Sales: Residential 38% 41% 42% 29% 33% 34% Commercial 32% 33% 34% 27% 31% 31% Industrial and other 12% 12% 12% 13% 14% 15% Resale Sales 16% 13% 9% 31% 22% 20% Customer refund - (2%) - - - - Other operating revenue 2% 3% 3% - - - Retail Rates The Company's retail rates are set by the Vermont Public Service Board ("PSB") after considering recommendations of Vermont's consumer advocate, the Vermont Department of Public Service ("DPS"). While the Company's retail rates do not have fuel or power cost adjustment mechanisms, the PSB has previously approved the deferral of extraordinary costs incurred that might normally be expensed by unregulated businesses in order to match these expenses with future revenues. Fair regulatory treatment is fundamental to maintaining the Company's financial stability. Rates must be set at levels to recover costs, including a market rate of return to equity and debt holders, in order to attract capital. The Company's retail rates at December 31, 2006 are based on a March 29, 2005 PSB Order that included, among other things: 1) a 2.75 percent rate reduction beginning April 1, 2005; 2) a $6.5 million pre-tax refund to customers; 3) a 10 percent return on equity (reduced from 11 percent); and 4) a requirement that the gain related to the 2004 Connecticut Valley sale be applied to the benefit of ratepayers to compensate for increased costs. This resulted in a $21.8 million pre-tax charge to utility earnings in the first quarter of 2005. On June 22, 2005, the Company filed an appeal of portions of the PSB's Order with the Vermont Supreme Court. The issues that were raised on appeal primarily focused on whether the 2005 Rate Order set rates retroactively without statutory authorization. On July 18, 2006, the Court issued its decision rejecting the Company's appeal. The Court's decision had no effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations for 2006. On May 15, 2006, the Company filed a request for a 6.15 percent rate increase (additional revenue of $16.4 million on an annual basis), to be effective February 1, 2007. On September 11, 2006, the Company and the DPS reached a settlement in the case, agreeing to a 3.73 percent increase effective January 1, 2007. The agreement reduced the Company's proposed allowed rate of return on common equity from 12 percent to 10.75 percent. On November 6, 2006, the Company and DPS filed amended testimony with the PSB to settle the Company's Accounting Order request related to recovery of fourth quarter 2005 replacement energy costs associated with a Vermont Yankee scheduled refueling outage. The agreement included recovery of incremental replacement energy costs of $1.5 million over a two-year period and added 0.34 percent to the Company's rate increase request, resulting in a combined rate increase request of 4.07 percent effective January 1, 2007. Page 4 of 123 On December 7, 2006, the PSB issued an Order ("2006 Rate Order") approving the 4.07 percent rate increase effective January 1, 2007. The 2006 Rate Order provided, among other things, an allowed rate of return on common equity of 10.75 percent capped until the Company's next rate proceeding. The January 1, 2007 rate increase, net of amounts to be returned to customers as described below, will add revenue of approximately $9.9 million annually. The Company's Accounting Order request for recovery of $1.5 million of incremental replacement power costs described above was subject to PSB approval. The 2006 Rate Order requires the Company to record a regulatory asset or liability for any difference between the replacement power cost amortization included in the 4.07 percent rate increase and the amount approved by the PSB. On January 12, 2007, the PSB issued an Order denying the Company's Accounting Order request. This had no 2006 income statement impact since the incremental replacement power costs were previously expensed in 2005, and it did not change the 4.07 percent rate increase effective January 1, 2007. Instead, the Company will defer the $1.5 million of revenue over two years and continue such deferral until its next rate proceeding, at which time the total amount deferred will be returned to customers. Wholesale Rates The Company provides wholesale transmission service to nine network customers and six point-to-point customers under ISO-New England FERC Electric Tariff No. 3, Section II - Open Access Transmission Tariff (Schedules 21-CV and 20A-CV). The Company also provides wholesale transmission service to one network customer under one FERC rate schedule. The Company maintains an OASIS site for transmission on the ISO-New England web page. The Company also provides wholesale power service to Woodsville Fire District Water and Light Department under FERC Electric Tariff, Original Volume No. 5. Sources and Availability of Power Supply The Company's energy generation and purchased power required to serve retail and firm wholesale customers was 2,461,444 mWh for the year ended December 31, 2006. The maximum one-hour integrated demand during that period was 437.6 MW and occurred on August 2, 2006. For 2005, the Company's energy generation and purchased power required to serve retail and firm wholesale customers was 2,488,790 mWh. The maximum one-hour integrated demand was 412.0 MW and occurred on July 19, 2005. The sources of energy and capacity available to the Company for the year ended December 31, 2006 follows: Net Effective Capability 12 Month Average MW Generated and Purchased mWh % Wholly Owned Plants: Hydro Diesel and Gas Turbine Jointly Owned Plants: Millstone #3 Wyman #4 McNeil Long-Term Purchases: VYNPC Hydro-Quebec Independent power producers Other Purchases: System and other purchases NEPOOL (ISO-New England) Total 41.2 27.3 20.0 10.7 10.7 179.6 142.9 33.5 0.4 - 466.3 235,464 615 174,540 905 52,908 1,689,390 998,365 198,735 22,961 67,479 3,441,362 6.8 - - 5.1 - - 1.5 49.1 29.0 5.8 0.7 2.0 100.0 Wholly Owned Plants: The Company's wholly owned plants are located in Vermont, and have a combined nameplate capacity of about 74.2 MW. The Company operates all of these plants, which include: 1) 20 hydroelectric generating facilities with nameplate capacities ranging from a low of 0.3 MW to a high of 7.5 MW, for an aggregate nameplate capacity of 45.3 MW; 2) two oil-fired gas turbines with a combined nameplate capacity of 26.5 MW; and 3) one diesel-peaking unit with a nameplate capacity of 2.4 MW. Page 5 of 123 Jointly Owned Plants: The Company's joint-ownership interests in generating and transmission plants are shown in the table below. The Company is responsible for its share of the operating expenses of these facilities (dollars in thousands). Fuel Type Ownership In Service Date MW Entitlement December 31 2006 2005 Wyman #4 Joseph C. McNeil Millstone Unit #3 Highgate Transmission Facility Less accumulated depreciation Oil Various Nuclear 1.7769% 20.0000% 1.7303% 47.5200% 1978 1984 1986 1985 10.8 10.8 20.0 N/A $3,422 15,555 77,162 14,357 110,496 60,986 $49,510 $3,419 15,575 77,105 14,302 110,401 58,141 $52,260 The Company receives its share of output and capacity of Millstone Unit #3, a 1,155 MW nuclear generating facility; Wyman #4, a 609 MW generating facility and Joseph C. McNeil, a 54 MW generating facility, as shown in the sources and availability of power supply table above. The Highgate Converter, a 225 MW facility, is directly connected to the Hydro-Quebec System to the north and to the Transco System for delivery of power to Vermont utilities. This facility can deliver power in either direction, but predominantly delivers power from Hydro-Quebec to Vermont. Major Long-Tem Purchases: Vermont Yankee: The Company purchases its entitlement share of Vermont Yankee plant output from VYNPC under a purchased power contract ("PPA") between VYNPC and ENVY. The PPA extends through the plant's current license life which expires in 2012. On June 8, 2006, the plant received a new output rating of approximately 620 MW, a 20 percent increase in plant capacity. The Company's entitlement of total plant output was reduced from 35 percent to 29 percent in September 2006 due to the uprate, but its share of plant output is similar to the amount received before the uprate process began. Prices under the PPA range from $39 to $45 per megawatt hour. The PPA contains a provision known as the "low market adjuster", which calls for a downward adjustment in the contract price if market prices for electricity fall by defined amounts. If market prices rise, however, PPA prices are not adjusted upward in excess of the PPA price. ENVY has no obligation to supply energy to VYNPC over the amount the plant is producing, so the Company receives reduced amounts when the plant is operating at a reduced level, and no energy when the plant is not operating. The Company is responsible for purchasing replacement energy at these times. The next refueling outage is scheduled to begin in May 2007. The Company has entered into a forward purchase contract for the purchase of replacement energy during the scheduled outage. The Company also purchased forced outage insurance to cover additional costs, if any, of obtaining replacement power from other sources if Vermont Yankee experiences unplanned outages between January 1 and December 31, 2007. If the Vermont Yankee plant is shut down for any reason prior to the end of its operating license, the Company would lose about 50 percent of its committed energy supply and would have to acquire replacement power resources for approximately 40 percent of its estimated power supply needs. The Company is not able to predict whether there will be an early shutdown of the Vermont Yankee plant or whether the PSB will allow timely and full recovery of increased costs related to any such shutdown. However, an early shutdown could materially impact the Company's financial position and future results of operations if the costs are not recovered in retail rates in a timely fashion. Hydro-Quebec: The Company is purchasing power from Hydro-Quebec under the Vermont Joint Owners ("VJO") Power Contract. The VJO is a group of Vermont electric companies, municipal utilities and cooperatives, including the Company. The VJO Power Contract has been in place since 1987 and purchases began in 1990. Related contracts were subsequently negotiated between the Company and Hydro-Quebec, which altered the terms and conditions contained in the original contract by reducing the overall power requirements and related costs. The VJO contract runs through 2020, but the Company's purchases under the contract end in 2016. As of December 31, 2006, the Company's obligation is about 47 percent of the total VJO Power Contract through 2016. The average annual amount of capacity that the Company will purchase from January 1, 2007 through October 31, 2012 is about 145.3 MW, with lesser amounts purchased through October 31, 2016. Page 6 of 123 In 1994, the Company negotiated a sellback arrangement whereby it received a reduction in capacity costs from 1995 to 1999. In exchange, Hydro-Quebec obtained two options. The first gives Hydro-Quebec the right upon four years' written notice, to reduce capacity deliveries by 50 MW beginning as early as 2010, including the use of a like amount of our Phase I/II transmission facility rights. The second gives Hydro-Quebec the right, upon one year's written notice, to curtail energy deliveries in a contract year (12 months beginning November 1) from an annual load factor of 75 to 50 percent due to adverse hydraulic conditions as measured at certain agreed upon metering stations on regulated and unregulated rivers in Quebec. This second option can be exercised five times through October 2015. Hydro-Quebec has not yet exercised these options. Under the VJO Power Contract, the VJO had elections to change the annual load factor from 75 percent to between 70 and 80 percent five times through 2020, and Hydro-Quebec had elections to reduce the load factor to not less than 65 percent three times during the same period of time. Hydro-Quebec has used all of its elections, resulting in a 65 percent load factor obligation from November 1, 2002 to October 31, 2005. The VJO elected to purchase at an 80 percent load factor for the contract year beginning November 1, 2005, and made a similar election for the contract year beginning November 1, 2006. The VJO have now used all of their load factor elections. After the contract year ending October 31, 2007, the annual load factor will be at 75 percent for the remainder of the contract, unless all parties agree to change it or there is a reduction due to the hydraulic conditions described above. Independent Power Producers: The Company purchases power from several Independent Power Producers ("IPPs") who own qualifying facilities under the Public Utilities Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. These facilities primarily use water and biomass as fuel. Most of the power comes through a state-appointed purchasing agent, which assigns power to all Vermont utilities under PSB rules. In 2006, power purchases from IPPs amounted to 6.7 percent of total mWh purchased and 19.2 percent of purchased power expense. See Part II, Item 7, Power Supply Matters, and Item 8, Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information. Other Purchases: System and Other Purchases, including ISO-New England: The Company participates in the New England regional wholesale electric power markets operated by ISO-New England, Inc., the regional bulk power transmission organization established to assure reliable and economical power supply in New England, which is governed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). The Company also engages in short-term purchases with other third parties, primarily in New England, to minimize net power costs and risks to its customers. The Company enters into forward purchase contracts when additional supply is needed and enters into forward sale contracts when it forecasts excess supply. On an hourly basis, power is sold or bought through ISO-New England's settlement process to balance the Company's resource output and load requirements. On a monthly basis, the Company aggregates the hourly sales and purchases through ISO-New England and records them as operating revenue or purchased power, respe ctively. See Part II, Item 7, Power Supply Matters and Wholesale Market and Transmission Matters, for additional information related to sources and availability of power supply. Franchise Pursuant to Vermont statute (30 V.S.A. Section 249), the PSB has established the service area for the Company in which it currently operates. Under 30 V.S.A. Section 251(b) no other company is legally entitled to serve any retail customers in the Company's established service area except as described below. An amendment to 30 V.S.A. Section 212(a) enacted May 28, 1987 authorizes the Vermont Department of Public Service ("DPS") to purchase and distribute power at retail to all consumers of electricity in Vermont, subject to certain preconditions specified in new sections 212(b) and 212(c). Section 212(b) provides that a review board, consisting of the Governor and certain other designated legislative officers, review and approve any retail proposal by the DPS if they are satisfied that the benefits outweigh any potential risk to the State. However, the DPS may proceed to file the retail proposal with the PSB either upon approval by the review board or failure of the review board to act within sixty (60) days of the submission. Section 212(c) provides that the DPS shall not enter into any retail sales arrangement before the PSB determines that it is appropriate. The PSB assesses the following factors in reaching its conclusion: 1) the need for the sale; 2) the rates are just and reasonable; 3) the sale wil l result in economic benefit; 4) the sale will not adversely affect system stability and reliability; and 5) the sale will be in the best interest of ratepayers. Page 7 of 123 Section 212(d) provides that upon PSB approval of a DPS retail sales request, Vermont utilities shall make arrangements for distributing such electricity on terms and conditions that are negotiated. Failing such negotiation, the PSB is directed to determine such terms as will compensate the utility for all costs reasonably and necessarily incurred to provide such arrangements. Such sales have not been made in the Company's service area since 1993. In addition, Chapter 79 of Title 30 authorizes municipalities to acquire the electric distribution facilities located within their boundaries. The exercise of such authority is conditioned upon an affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters in an election and upon payment of just compensation including severance damages. Just compensation is determined either by negotiation between the municipality and the utility or by the PSB after a hearing, if the parties fail to reach an agreement. If either party is dissatisfied, the statute allows them to appeal the PSB's determination to the Vermont Supreme Court. Once the price is determined, whether by agreement of the parties or by the PSB, a second affirmative three-fifths vote of the legal voters is required. There have been two instances where Chapter 79 of Title 30 has been invoked. In one instance, the Town of Springfield acted to acquire the Company's distribution facilities in that community pursuant to a vote in 1977; that action was discontinued in 1985. The other instance, which occurred in 2002, involved the Town of Rockingham, which voted to pursue purchase of the Company's distribution facilities, Green Mountain Power's ("GMP") distribution facilities, and another party's hydroelectric facility located in Bellows Falls. The Company and GMP refused to voluntarily sell their distribution facilities. In November 2003, the Company was notified that Rockingham intended to obtain their facilities by eminent domain under Title 24 V.S.A. Section 2805. The Company opposed this action as being contrary to Title 30, and in December 2003 obtained a permanent injunction from the Superior Court prohibiting Rockingham from pursuing this course of action. If Rockingham decides to continue this action in the f uture, it must proceed with the PSB under Title 30. After its option to purchase the Bellows Falls hydroelectric facility expired in 2005, Rockingham discontinued its efforts to acquire the Company's distribution facilities. Utility Acquisitions: In 2006, the Company purchased the plant assets and franchises of Rochester Electric Light and Power Company and the southern Vermont franchise territory and related plant assets of Vermont Electric Cooperative. These purchases added approximately 3,600 to the Company's customer base. Regulation State Commissions: As described above the Company is subject to the regulatory authority of the PSB with respect to rates and terms of service. The Company, VELCO and Transco are subject to PSB jurisdiction related to securities issuances, planning and construction of major generation and transmission facilities and various other matters. Additionally, the Public Utilities Commission of Maine and the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control exercise limited jurisdiction over the Company based on its joint-ownership interest as a tenant-in-common of Wyman #4 and Millstone Unit #3, respectively. Federal Power Act: Certain phases of the businesses of the Company and Transco, including certain rates, are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") as follows: the Company as a licensee of hydroelectric developments under Part I of the Federal Power Act, and the Company and Transco as interstate public utilities under Parts II and III, as amended and supplemented by the National Energy Act. The Company is in the process of relicensing or preparing to relicense six separate hydro-projects under the Federal Power Act. These projects, some of which are grouped together under a single license, represent about 24.5 MW, or 54.8 percent, of the Company's hydroelectric nameplate capacity. The Company has obtained an exemption from licensing for the Bradford and East Barnet projects. Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005: The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 includes numerous provisions meant to increase domestic gas and oil supplies, improve energy system reliability, build new nuclear power plants, and expand renewable energy sources. It also repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, effective February 2006. The Company, by reason of its ownership of utility subsidiaries, is a holding company, as defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. Page 8 of 123 Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC"): The nuclear generating facilities in which the Company has an interest are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to regulate siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors with respect to public health, safety, environmental and antitrust matters. Under its continuing jurisdiction, the NRC may require modification of units for which operating licenses have already been issued, or impose new conditions on such licenses, or require that the operation of a unit cease or that the level of operation of a unit be temporarily or permanently reduced. Competitive Conditions Competition currently takes several forms. At the wholesale level, New England has implemented its version of FERC's "standard market design" ("SMD"), which is a detailed competitive market framework that has resulted in bid-based competition of power suppliers rather than prices set under cost of service regulation. Similar versions of SMD have been implemented in New York State and a large abutting multi-state region referred to as PJM. At the retail level, customers have long had energy options such as propane, natural gas or oil for heating, cooling and water heating, and self-generation. Another competitive threat is the potential for customers to form municipally owned utilities in the Company's service territory. Competition in the energy services market exists between electricity and fossil fuels. In the residential and small commercial sectors, this competition is primarily for electric space and water heating from propane and oil dealers. Competitive issues are price, service, convenience, cleanliness, automatic delivery and safety. In the large commercial and industrial sectors, cogeneration and self-generation are the major competitive threats to network electric sales. Competitive risks in these market segments are primarily related to seasonal, one-shift milling operations that can tolerate periodic power outages common to such forms of cogeneration or self-generation, and for industrial or institutional customers with steady heat loads where the generator's waste heat can be used in their manufacturing or space conditioning processes. Competitive advantages for electricity in those segments are: cost stability; convenience; cost of back-up power sources or alternatively, reliability; space requirements; noise problems; air emission and site permit issues; and maintenance requirements. Environmental Matters The Company is subject to environmental regulations in the licensing and operation of the generation, transmission, and distribution facilities in which it has an interest, as well as the licensing and operation of the facilities in which it is a co-licensee. These environmental regulations are administered by local, state and federal regulatory authorities and may impact the Company's generation, transmission, distribution, transportation and waste handling facilities on air, water, land and aesthetic qualities. The Company cannot presently forecast the costs or other effects that environmental regulation may ultimately have on its existing and proposed facilities and operations. The Company believes that any such prudently incurred costs related to its utility operations would be recoverable through the ratemaking process. For additional information see Part II, Item 8, Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies, herein for disclosures relating to environmental contingencies, hazardous substance releases and the control measures related thereto. Seasonal Nature of Business The Company's kilowatt-hour sales and revenues are typically higher in the winter and summer than in the spring and fall, as sales tend to vary with weather. Ski area and other winter-related recreational activities along with associated lodging, longer hours of darkness and heating loads from cold weather contribute to higher sales in the winter, while air conditioning generates higher sales in the summer. Consumption is least in the spring and fall, when there is little heating or cooling load. Capital Expenditures The Company's business is capital-intensive and requires annual construction expenditures to maintain the distribution system. The Company's capital expenditures for the next five years are estimated to be $33.0 million in 2007, $27.5 million in 2008, $22.5 million in 2009, $35.0 million in 2010 and $40.6 million in 2011. These are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary. Also see Part II, Item 7, Liquidity, Capital Resources and Commitments. Page 9 of 123 Number of Employees Local Union No. 300, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, represents operating and maintenance employees of the Company. On December 31, 2006 the Company had 535 employees, of which 222 are represented by the union. On December 29, 2004, the Company and its employees represented by the union agreed to a new four-year contract, which expires on December 31, 2008. The new contract provided for a net general wage increase of 3.5 percent effective January 2, 2005, January 1, 2006, December 31, 2006 and December 30, 2007. Executive Officers of Registrant The following sets forth the present Executive Officers of the Company. There are no family relationships among the executive officers. The term of each officer is for one year or until a successor is elected. Officers are normally elected annually. Name and Age Office Officer Since Robert H. Young, 59 President and Chief Executive Officer 1987 William J. Deehan, 54 Vice President - Power Planning and Regulatory Affairs 1991 Brian P. Keefe, 49 Vice President - Governmental Affairs 2006 Pamela J. Keefe, 41 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer 2006 Joan F. Gamble, 49 Vice President - Strategic Change and Business Services 1998 Joseph M. Kraus, 51 Senior Vice President - Operations, Engineering and Customer Service 1987 Dale A. Rocheleau, 48 Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Affairs, and Corporate Secretary 2003 Mr. Young joined the Company in 1987. He was elected Senior Vice President - Finance and Administration in 1988. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) commencing in 1993 and was elected Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) commencing in 1995. Mr. Young also serves as President, CEO, and Chair of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. He is also Director of the following CVPS affiliates: Vermont Electric Power Company, Inc., Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation; Vermont Electric Transmission Company, Inc.; and, The Home Service Store, Inc. Mr. Deehan joined the Company in 1985 with nine years of utility regulation and related research experience. Prior to being elected to his present position in May 2001, he served as Vice President - Regulatory Affairs and Strategic Analysis. He previously served as Assistant Vice President - Rates and Economic Analysis from April 1991 to May 1996. From 1988 to 1991 he served as Director of Rate Administration and Forecasting for the Company. Ms. Gamble joined the Company in 1989 with 10 years of electric utility and related consulting experience. Since joining the Company, she has held a variety of positions with increasing responsibility. Ms. Gamble was elected to her present position in August 2001. Ms. Gamble also serves as Vice President - Strategic Change and Business Services for the following CVPS subsidiary: Eversant Corporation. She serves as a Director for the following CVPS subsidiaries: Eversant Corporation and SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Keefe joined the Company in December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, from 2000 to 2006, he served as a senior aide to U.S. Senator James M. Jeffords, focusing on energy, environment and economic development issues, and serving as liaison between Vermont constituents and Washington, D.C. policymakers. In 1998 and 1999, he served as a policy coordinator for the Vermont Electricity Consumers Coalition, an association of Vermont Page 10 of 123 businesses, business organizations and residential groups working to mitigate high electricity costs. Mr. Keefe worked for Sen. Jeffords in Washington, D.C., from 1988 to 1992, where he managed such legislation as the Clean Air Amendments of 1991, the Oil Spill Prevention Act and the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act. From 1993 to 1998, he served on Sen. Jeffords' Vermont staff, with primary responsibilities in the areas of energy, environment and natural resources. Ms. Keefe joined the Company in June 2006. Prior to joining the Company, from 2003 to 2006, she served as Senior Director of Financial Strategy and Assistant Treasurer of IDX Systems Corporation ("IDX"); from 1999 to 2003 she served as Director of Financial Planning and Analysis and Assistant Treasurer at IDX. Ms. Keefe serves as Director, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; and, Catamount Resources Corporation. She also serves as a Director of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation, a CVPS affiliate. Mr. Kraus joined the Company in 1981. Prior to being elected to his present position of Senior Vice President Operations, Engineering and Customer Service, he served as Senior Vice President Engineering and Operations, General Counsel, and Secretary from May 2003 until November 2003. He previously served as Senior Vice President Customer Service, Secretary, and General Counsel from May 2001 to May 2003. Mr. Kraus serves as Director of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Mr. Rocheleau joined the Company in November 2003 as Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Affairs, and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Director and Attorney at Law from 1992 to 2003 with Downs Rachlin Martin, PLLC. Mr. Rocheleau serves as Director, Senior Vice President for Legal and Public Affairs and Corporate Secretary of the following CVPS subsidiaries: Connecticut Valley Electric Company Inc.; CVPSC - East Barnet Hydroelectric, Inc.; CV Realty, Inc.; Custom Investment Corporation; Catamount Resources Corporation; Eversant Corporation; and, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. Energy Conservation and Load Management The primary purpose of Conservation and Load Management programs is to offset need for long-term power supply and delivery resources that are more expensive to purchase or develop than customer-efficiency programs, including unpriced external factors such as emissions and economic risk. The Vermont Energy Efficiency Utility ("EEU"), created by the State of Vermont, began operation in January 2000. The Company has a continuing obligation to provide customer information and referrals, coordination of customer service, power quality, and any other distribution utility functions, which may intersect with the EEU's utility activities. The Company has retained the obligation to deliver demand side management programs targeted at deferral of its transmission and distribution projects, known as Distributed Utility Planning ("DUP"). DUP is designed to ensure that delivery services are provided at least cost and to create the most efficient transmission and distribution system possible. The PSB is currently considering a similar DUP process for the bulk transmission lines and Transco. Nuclear Decommissioning Obligations The Company has a 1.7303 joint-ownership percentage in Millstone Unit # 3. As a joint owner, in which Dominion Nuclear Corporation ("DNC") is the lead owner with about 93.4707 percent of the plant joint-ownership, the Company is responsible for its share of nuclear decommissioning costs. The Company has an external trust dedicated to funding its joint-ownership share of future decommissioning costs. DNC has suspended contributions to the Millstone Unit #3 Trust Fund because the minimum NRC funding requirements are being met or exceeded. The Company has also suspended contributions to the Trust Fund, but could choose to renew funding at its own discretion as long as the minimum requirement is met or exceeded. If a need for additional decommissioning funding is necessary, the Company will be obligated to resume contributions to the Trust Fund. The Company owns, through equity investments, 2 percent of Maine Yankee, 2 percent of Connecticut Yankee and 3.5 percent of Yankee Atomic, and is responsible for paying its equity ownership percentage of decommissioning costs and all other costs for these plants. As of December 31, 2006, based on the most recent estimates provided, the Company's share of remaining costs to decommission these three nuclear units is $3.4 million for Maine Yankee, $8.2 million for Connecticut Yankee and $3.3 million for Yankee Atomic. Page 11 of 123 See Part II, Item 7, Nuclear Generating Companies, and Item 8, Note 4 - Investments in Affiliates for additional information. Unregulated Businesses CRC's wholly owned subsidiary, Eversant Corporation, engages in the sale or rental of electric water heaters through a wholly owned subsidiary, SmartEnergy Water Heating Services, Inc. to customers in Vermont and New Hampshire. On December 20, 2005, CRC sold all of its interest in Catamount to Diamond Castle. Cash proceeds from the sale amounted to $59.25 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $5.6 million. See Part II, Item 8, Note 5 - Discontinued Operations. Repurchase of Common Stock On February 7, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 2,250,000 shares of the Company's common stock in a reverse Dutch tender offer using proceeds from the December 20, 2005 sale of Catamount. Under the procedures of the tender offer, shareholders could offer to sell some or all of their stock to the Company at a target price in a range from $20.50 to $22.50 per share. The tender offer commenced on February 14, 2006 and ended on April 5, 2006. Upon conclusion of the tender offer, the Company purchased 2,249,975 shares, about 18.3 percent of its common shares outstanding, at $22.50 per share. Cash paid for the common shares including transaction costs, amounted to $51.2 million. Recent Energy Initiatives The State of Vermont continues to examine changes to the provision of electric service absent introduction of retail choice. Several laws have been passed since 2005 that impact electric utilities in Vermont. These include: 1) Act 61 - Renewable Energy, Efficiency, Transmission, and Vermont's Energy Future; 2) Act 208 - Vermont Energy Security and Reliability Act; and 3) Act 123 - Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. While provisions of recently passed laws are now being implemented, the 2007 Legislature continues to deliberate new policies designed to reduce electricity consumption, promote renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. See Part II, Item 7, Recent Energy Initiatives for more detail. (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas The Company and its subsidiaries do not have any foreign operations or export sales. (e) Available Information The Company makes available free of charge through its Internet Website, www.cvps.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Access to the reports is available from the main page of the Internet Website through "Investor Relations." The Company's Corporate Ethics and Conflict of Interest Policy, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Charters of the Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees are also available on its Internet Website. Access to these documents is available from the main page of the Internet Website through "Corporate Governance and Ethics." Printed copies of these documents are also available upon written request to the Assistant Corporate Secretary at its principal executive offices. The Company's reports, proxy, information st atements and other information are also available by accessing the SEC's Internet Website, www.sec.gov, or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors We regularly identify, monitor and assess our exposure to risk and seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our energy business. However, there are risks that are beyond our control or that cannot be limited cost-effectively or that may occur despite our risk mitigation strategies. The risk factors discussed below could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks related to timing and adequacy of rate relief: We are regulated by the PSB, the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control and FERC, with respect to rates charged for service, accounting, financing and other matters pertaining to regulated operations. Electric utilities are subject to certain accounting standards that apply only to regulated businesses. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Page 12 of 123 Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation ("SFAS No. 71"), for our regulated Vermont service territory and FERC-regulated wholesale business. If we determine that we no longer meet the criteria under SFAS No. 71, the accounting impact would be an extraordinary charge to operations of about $19.9 million on a pre-tax basis as of December 31, 2006, assuming no stranded cost recovery would be allowed through a rate mechanism. We would also be required to record pension and postretirement costs of $31.7 million on a pre-tax basis to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss as a reduction in stockholder's equity, and would be required to determine any potential impairment to the carrying costs of deregulated plant. The financial statement impact resulting from discontinuance of SFAS No. 71 might also trigger certain defaults under our current financial covenants. Fair regulatory treatment is fundamental to maintaining our financial stability. Rates must be set at levels to recover costs, including a market rate of return to equity and debt holders in order to attract capital. Our retail rates do not have fuel or power cost adjustment mechanisms that would allow increases in power supply costs to be recovered immediately in the rates we charge customers. Obtaining a change in retail rates generally requires a rate proceeding that could last up to nine months. In December 2006, the PSB approved a rate increase effective January 1, 2007, and we are planning to request an additional rate increase later in 2007. Vermont law also allows electric utilities to seek temporary rate increases if deemed necessary by the PSB to provide adequate and efficient service or to preserve the viability of the utility. Additionally, Vermont law permits alternative regulation that could potentially provide mechanisms to adjust rates for changes in power supply expense, if approved by the PSB. Recently the PSB approved an alternative regulation plan proposed by another Vermont utility. We are evaluating that plan to determine whether to seek approval of an acceptable alternative regulation plan for our business. Risks related to our current credit rating, which is below investment grade: In June 2005, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered our corporate credit rating to below investment grade. We believe that restoration of our credit rating is critical to the long-term success of the Company. While our credit rating remains below investment-grade, the cost of capital, which is ultimately passed on to our customers, will be greater than it otherwise would be. That, combined with other collateral requirements from creditors and for power purchases and sales, makes restoration of our credit rating critical. Looking ahead, as long-term power contracts with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC begin to expire five to six years from now, these ratings become even more important. Access to needed capital is also more of a concern as a non-investment grade company, but we don't anticipate any constraints on access to capital in the near term. Risks related to our power supply and wholesale power market prices: Our material power supply contracts are principally with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC. The power supply contracts with VYNPC and Hydro-Quebec comprise the majority of our total annual energy (mWh) purchases. If one or both of these sources become unavailable for a period of time, there could be exposure to high wholesale power prices and that amount could be material. Additionally, this could significantly impact liquidity due to the potential high cost of replacement power and performance assurance collateral requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. We could seek emergency rate relief from our regulators if this occurred. Our contract for power purchases from VYNPC ends in 2012, but there is a risk that the plant could be shut down earlier than expected if ENVY determines that it is not economical to continue operating the plant. Deliveries under the contract with Hydro-Quebec end in 2016, but the level of deliveries will be reduced in 2012. There is a risk that future sources available to replace these contracts may not be as reliable and the price of such replacement power could be significantly higher than what we have in place today. Risks related to liquidity: We believe that cash on hand, cash flow from operations and our $25.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to fund our business. Based on our current cash forecasts, we believe the borrowing capacity under the credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity at least until the end of 2007, and possibly longer. However, an extended Vermont Yankee plant outage or similar event could significantly impact our liquidity due to the potentially high cost of replacement power and performance assurance requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. In the event of an extended Vermont Yankee plant outage, we could seek emergency rate relief from our regulators. Other material risks to cash flow from operations include: loss of Page 13 of 123 retail sales revenue from unusual weather; slower-than-anticipated load growth and unfavorable economic conditions; increases in net power costs largely due to lower-than-anticipated margins on sales revenue from excess power or an unexpected power source interruption; required prepayments for power purchases; and increases in performance assurance requirements described below, primarily as a result of high power market prices. Risks related to the economic condition of our customers: An economic downturn and increased cost of energy supply could adversely affect energy consumption and therefore impact our results of operations. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. A recession or prolonged lag of a subsequent recovery could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 