Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control, cannot be limited cost-effectively or may occur despite our risk-mitigation strategies. Each of the following risks could have a material effect on our performance. Also see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Other Business Risks and Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are subject to substantial utility-related regulation on the federal, state and local levels, and changes in regulatory or legislative policy could jeopardize our full recovery of costs. At the federal level, the FERC regulates our transmission rates, affiliate transactions, the acquisition by us of securities of regulated entities and certain other aspects of our business. The PSB regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, various business practices and transactions, financings, transactions between us and our affiliates, and the siting of our transmission and generation facilities and our ability to make repairs to such facilities. Our allowed rates of return, rate structures, operation and construction of faciliti es, rates of depreciation and amortization, and recovery of costs (including decommissioning costs and exogenous costs such as storm response-related expenses), are all determined within the regulatory process. The timing and adequacy of regulatory relief directly affect our results of operations and cash flows. Under state law, we are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow us an opportunity to recover reasonable operation and capital costs and a return on investment to attract needed capital and maintain our financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests. We prepare and submit periodic filings with the DPS for review and with the PSB for review and approval. The PSB may deny the recovery of costs incurred for the operation, maintenance, and construction of our regulated assets, as well as reduce our return on investment. Furthermore, compliance with regulatory and legislative requirements could result in substantial costs in ou r operations that may not be recovered. Also see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Retail Rates and Alternative Regulation, for additional information about our Alternative Regulation Plan that became effective on November 1, 2008. It expires on December 31, 2011, but we have an option to petition for an extension. We are subject to the effects of changes in Vermont state government resulting from elections of public officials, including the governor and appointees of the PSB. A change in public officials could have implications on our regulatory relationships and future rate settlements. New officials could have different views on various regulatory issues. Page 10 of 123 Unexpected ice, wind and snow storms or extraordinarily severe weather can dramatically increase costs, with a significant lapse of time before we recover these costs through our rates. The demand for our services and our ability to provide them without material unplanned expenses are directly affected by weather conditions. We serve a largely rural, rugged service territory with dense forestation that is subject to extreme weather conditions. Storm activity has been significant in recent years, with the two most expensive storms in our history occurring in 2007 and 2008. Our results of operations can be affected by changes in weather. Severe weather conditions such as ice and snow storms, high winds and natural disaste rs may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. We typically receive the five-year average of storm restoration costs in our rates. Weather conditions also directly influence the demand for electricity. We are currently recovering storm response-related costs from the 2008 major storm under our alternative regulation plan, but are unable to predict whether future major storm costs will qualify as an exogenous factor or if we will receive regulatory approval for full recovery of costs. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that monitor, among other things, emission allowances, pollution controls, maintenance, site remediation, equipment upgrades and management of hazardous waste. Various governmental agencies require us to obtain environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and requirements can impose significant costs, reduce cash flows and result in plant shutdowns or reduced plant output. Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if due to factors beyond our control or reinterpretations of existing requirements, could also increase costs. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us. The cost impact of any such legislation would be dependent upon the specific requirements adopted and cannot be determined at this time. Also, see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Recent Energy Policy Initiatives. Greenhouse gas emission legislation or regulations, if enacted, could significantly increase the wholesale cost of power, capital expenditures or operating costs. Global climate change issues have received an increased focus on the federal and state government levels which could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our business, including power plants we own and general utility operations. The ultimate impact on our business would be dependent upon the specific rules and regulations adopted and we cannot predict the effects of any such legislation at this time. We anticipate that compliance with greenhouse gas emission limitations for all suppliers may entail replacement of existing equip ment, installation of additional pollution control equipment, purchase of emissions allowances, curtailment of certain operations or other actions. Also, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Recent Energy Policy Initiatives. Our business is affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions, and due to current market volatility, we have a number of cash flow risks. If the current economic crisis intensifies or is sustained for a protracted period of time, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business. There could be adverse effects on: the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements; the availability of financially stable counterparties for the forward purchase and forward sale of power; the availability and cost of long-term capital to fund our asset management plan and future investments in Transco; additional funding requirements for our pension trust due to declines in asset values to fund pension liabilities; and the performance of the assets in our Rabbi Trust and decommissioning trust funds. Longer-term disruptions in the capital markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changes in regulation, reduced financing alternatives or failures of financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the funds needed to operate our business. Such prolonged disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize. In addition, if our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition could be harmed, and future results of operations could be adversely affected. Page 11 of 123 The global economic crisis resulted in a significant decline in lending activity, which has recently begun to abate. We have a $40 million unsecured revolving credit facility and a $15 million unsecured revolving credit facility with different banks. Our access to funds under the revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the counterparty banks to meet the funding commitments. The counterparty banks may not be able to meet the funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period. We are currently reviewing options to issue debt and equity to support working capital requirements resulting from investments in our distribution and transmission system. On November 6, 2009, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the SEC requesting the ability to offer, from time to time and in one or more offerings, up to $55 million of our common stock. On December 4, 2009, the SEC declared the Registration Statement to be effective. On January 15, 2010, we filed a Prospectus Supplement with the SEC noting that we entered into an Equity Distribution agreement allowing us to issue up to $45 million of shares under an “at-the-market” offering program. As of December 31, 2009, no shares have been issued under this arrangement. We are subject to investment price risk due to equity market fluctuations and interest rate changes, which could result in higher contributions and more cash outflows. Interest rate changes and volatility in the equity markets could impact the values of the debt and equity securities in our pension and postretirement medical trust funds and the valuation of pension and other benefit liabilities, affecting pension and other benefit expenses, contributions to the external trust funds and our ability to meet future pension and postretirement benefit obligations. Interest rate changes and volatility in the equity markets could also impact the value of the debt securities in our nuclear decommissioning trust. We have risks related to our power supply and wholesale power market prices and we could be exposed to high wholesale power prices that could be material. Our material power supply contracts are with Hydro-Quebec and VYNPC. The power supply contracts with Vermont Yankee and Hydro-Quebec comprise the majority of our total annual energy purchases. Combined, these contracts amount to approximately 90 percent of our total energy purchases. If one or both of these sources become unavailable for a period of time, we could be exposed to high wholesale power prices and that amount could be material. Additionally, this could significantly impact our liquidity due to the potentially high cost of replacement power and p erformance assurance collateral requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. Most incremental replacement power costs would be recovered through the power cost adjustment mechanism in our alternative regulation plan or we could seek emergency rate relief from our regulators if this were to occur. Such relief may or may not be provided and if it is provided we cannot predict its timing or adequacy. Our contract for power purchases from Vermont Yankee ends in March 2012, but there is a risk that the plant could be shut down earlier than expected if Entergy-Vermont Yankee, the plant’s owner, determines that it is not economical to continue operating the plant or public health issues arise. The plant owners are currently trying to determine the source of a leak of tritium-infused water at the plant, which raised the concerns detailed above. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter or how it might affect us. If the Vermont Yankee plant is shut down for any reason prior to the end of its operating license, we would lose the economic benefit of an energy volume equal to close to 50 percent of our total committed supply and have to acquire replacement power resources for approximately 40 percent of our estimated power supply needs. Based on projected market prices as of December 31, 2009, the incremental replacement cost of lost power, including capacity, is estimated to average $27.5 million annually. We are not able to predict whether there will be an early shutdown of the Vermont Yankee plant or whether the PSB would allow timely and full recovery of increased costs related to such shutdown. An early shutdown, depending upon the specific circumstances, could involve cost recovery via the o utage insurance described above and recoveries under the PCAM but, in general, would not be expected to materially impact financial results, if the costs are recovered in retail rates in a timely fashion. Deliveries under the contract with Hydro-Quebec end in 2016, but the level of deliveries will begin to decrease after 2012. Hydro-Quebec is in a building phase and interested in a new contract. We recently signed a memorandum of agreement, a precursor to a final contract for ongoing Hydro-Quebec supplies. There is a risk that other sources available to fill out our portfolio may not be as reliable, and the price of such replacement power could be significantly higher than what we have in place today. Page 12 of 123 Extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could lead to the loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services, or with which our electric facilities are interconnected, and could greatly reduce cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and/or replacement of assets. Our ability to provide energy delivery and related services depends on our operations and facilities and those of third parties, including ISO-New England and electric generators from which we purchase electricity. While we carry property insurance to protect certain assets and general regulatory precedent may provide for the recovery of losses for such incidents, our losses may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative contracts. We use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, to manage our commodity risk. We also bear the risk of a counterparty failing to perform. While we employ prudent credit policies and obtain collateral where appropriate, counterparty credit exposure cannot be eliminated, particularly in volatile energy markets. Gains or losses on derivative contracts are marked to market, but we have received approval for regulatory accounting treatment of these mark-to-market adjustments, so there is no impact on our income statement. Adoption of new accounting pronouncements and application of accounting guidance for regulated operations can impact our financial results. The adoption of new accounting standards and changes to current accounting policies or interpretations of such standards may materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting policies also include industry-specific accounting standards applicable to rate-regulated utilities. If we determine that we no longer meet the criteria to account for regulated operations, the accounting impact would be a charge to operations of $11.8 million on a pre-tax basis as of December 31, 2009, assuming no stranded cost recovery would be allowed through a rate mechanism. 60; We would also be required to record pension and postretirement costs of $31.3 million on a pre-tax basis to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and $0.7 million to Retained Earnings as a reduction in stockholders’ equity and would be required to determine any potential impairment to the carrying costs of deregulated plant. The financial statement impact resulting from the discontinuance of accounting for regulated operations might also trigger certain defaults under our current financial covenants. The effect of the adverse impacts from these risk factors on our utility earnings could be mitigated by the earnings sharing adjustment mechanism in the alternative regulation plan effective January 1, 2009. Anti-takeover provisions of Vermont law, our articles of association and our bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or attempts to replace or remove our management that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Our articles of association and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. They provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered terms of three years and permit removal of directors only for cause by the holders of not less than 80 percent of the shares entitled to vote (except where our Senior Preferred Stock has a right to participate in voting after certain arrea rages in payments of dividends). Additionally, they require advance notice of stockholder proposals and stockholder nominations to the board of directors. In addition, they impose restrictions on the persons who may call special stockholder meetings. In addition, Vermont law allows directors to consider the interests of constituencies other than stockholders in determining appropriate board action on a recommendation of a business combination to stockholders. The approval of a U.S. government regulator or the PSB will also be required of certain types of business combination transactions. These provisions may delay or prevent a change of control of our company even if this change of control would benefit our stockholders. We have other business risks related to liquidity. An extended unplanned Vermont Yankee plant outage or similar event could have a significant effect on our liquidity due to the potentially high cost of replacement power and performance assurance requirements arising from purchases through ISO-New England or third parties. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the capital markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. Page 13 of 123 Our credit facilities provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs and power contract performance assurance requirements in the form of funds borrowed and letters of credit. We raised $20.9 million, net of issuance costs, in a secondary offering of our common stock in November 2008. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes including investments in our core infrastructure to maintain system reliability. If we are ever unable to secure needed funding, we would review our corporate goals in response to the financial limitation. Other material risks to cash flow from operations include: loss of retail sales revenue from unusual weather; slower-than-anticipated load growth and unfavorable economic conditions; increases in net power costs due to lower-than-anticipated margins on sales revenue from excess power or an unexpected power source interruption; required prepayments for power purchases; and increases in performance assurance requirements described above, as a result of high power market prices. Continued turbulence in the capital markets could limit or delay our ability to obtain additional outside capital on reasonable terms, and could negatively affect our ability to remarket and keep outstanding $10.8 million of our revenue bonds with monthly interest rate resets. A related liquidity risk is our growing reliance on cash distributions from one of our affiliates. Transco’s ability to pay distributions is subject to its financial condition and financial covenants in the various loan documents to which it is a party. Although it is a regulated business, Transco may not always have the resources needed to pay distributions with respect to the ownership units in the same manner as VELCO paid in the past. Likewise, our business follows the economic cycles of the customers we serve. The economic downturn, subsequent recession and increased cost of energy supply have and could continue to adversely affect energy consumption and therefore impact our results of operations. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. However, the effect of unanticipated reduced consumer demand on our revenue will be offset to a large degree by the power cost and earnings sharing adjustment mechanism in the alternative regulation plan that became effective January 1, 2009. Anticipated consumer demand is reflected in bas e rates set annually under the plan. Economic conditions in our service territory also impact our collections of accounts receivable and financial results. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. We rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our business is capital intensive and dependent on our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs could increase materially, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. Our current credit rating is subject to change and ratings below investment grade could increase our capital costs and collateral requirements. In December 2009, Moody’s Investors Service issued us a corporate credit rating of Baa3, which is investment grade. Subsequently, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services withdrew, at our request, its rating of us which had been BB+ (below investment grade) since June 2005. Restoration of our credit rating to investment grade was a key goal for us during that time. Attaining an investment-grade rating benefits our customers and shareholders by giving us access to lower-cost capital, more power purchase and sale counterparties, and higher collateral thresholds. 60; Looking ahead, as long-term power contracts with Hydro-Quebec and Vermont Yankee begin to expire two years from now, these ratings become even more important. The costs associated with healthcare or pension obligations could escalate at rates higher than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Active employee and retiree healthcare and pension costs are a significant part of our cost structure. The costs associated with healthcare or pension obligations could escalate at rates higher than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Also, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Pension and Postretirement Medical Benefits. We have risks related to the cost and implementation of new technology projects. The CVPS SmartPower TM (“SmartPower”) plan involves the deployment of technologies that may change our business in fundamental ways. We believe these changes will be in the best interest of the company and our customers. However, the full extent of these changes is not yet known or knowable, and we cannot say with certainty that the deployment of these technologies will not present some risks to the company and its operations. As our industry deploys these technologies and their impacts become more understood, we will be able to more precisely estimate the risks, if any, of the se technologies on our business. Page 14 of 123 We are working with the DPS, to reach an agreement on the recovery of costs associated with the plan, and we will seek PSB approval of the agreement. Extensions of the regulatory review process will impact the SmartPower project schedule. SmartPower is highly dependent on other capital projects. We are working with various parties to build a communications infrastructure that will support an advanced meter infrastructure. VELCO, our transmission affiliate, is in the process of developing its related project plans and milestones for its capital projects. If the milestones of VELCO’s projects are out of phase with our SmartPower telecommunications requirements, temporary solutions could add cost to the SmartPower project. We have risks related to technology interruptions and changes. Our daily operations are heavily dependent on technology and computing systems. While our technological infrastructure is highly reliable, and extended outages and failures are not anticipated, extended outages could adversely impact many aspects of our business. Changes in technology and/or an accelerated rate of change in technology could also have an adverse impact on our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees. Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance. A significant portion of our workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to 10 years. Also, members of our management or key employees may leave the company unexpectedly. Such highly skilled individuals and institutional knowledge cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 