ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The folowing factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. The principal risks for the Trust and its shareholders at this time relate to the asset purchase agreement signed March 17, 2006, pursuant to which the Trust agreed to sell substantially all of its assets to Buckingham Properties, Inc., for $60 million. RISKS RELATED TO THE PENDING SALE OF ASSETS Failure to complete the pending sale of assets could adversely affect share values. The pending sale of assets to Buckingham Properties, Inc., offers the Trust's shareholders an opportunity to realize, in the aggregate, the approximate fair market value of those assets. As operating assets of the Trust, their productivity is burdened by general and administrative expenses. Due, in part, to the relatively small portfolio of investment properties, the Trust's shares have historically sold on the market at a discount to net asset value. The potential costs to comply with provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 were perceived to further burden market value. Following a shareholder proposal in 2003 recommending liquidation of the Trust that received strong support, the Board of Trustees investigated strategic alternatives and concluded that the sale of the Trust's assets to Buckingham Properties, Inc., represented the best alternative available for the shareholders to realize full net asset value. Factors that could result in failure to complete the sale of assets include: 1) The buyer may, at its option, withdraw from the agreement without penalty during the due diligence period; 2) The buyer may, following due diligence procedures, demand changes in contract terms, which the Trust may deem unacceptable; 3) The buyer may not be approved to assume certain mortgage loans which are not currently eligible to be repaid or refinanced; 4) The sale would not occur unless approved by holders of a majority of the Trust's outstanding shares of beneficial interest; 5) The buyer may fail to secure equity and/or debt financing to complete the purchase. Failure to complete the pending sale could necessitate a change in independent property management agents. Buckingham Properties, Inc., is affiliated with Buckingham Management, LLC. Buckingham Management, LLC, has, since 2003, managed all of the Trust's apartment properties. The Trust reimburses Buckingham Management for the cost of providing leasing and maintenance employees at the apartment locations. If the proposed sale fails to occur, it may not be possible to continue the present management arrangements. A new management firm and new on-site employees could result in lower occupancy and temporarily, at least, higher operating expenses. Uncertainties regarding sale of Florida restaurant property. The only real estate owned by the Trust that is not included in the Asset Purchase Agreement with Buckingham Properties, Inc., is a property near Orlando, Florida, that is currently leased through July 31, 2006, to the operator of a Miami Subs restaurant. The Trust was notified in February 2006 that the State of Florida intends, pursuant to its eminent domain authority, to purchase the property. The State intends to use the Trust's property, along with several other nearby properties, to build a cloverleaf intersection. The State has not yet provided any information as to the amount it will pay or when it will take possession. The lessee agreed in 2005 to purchase the property from the Trust, but did not complete the purchase. The Trust considers the purchase agreement as no longer valid. A dispute is pending with the lessee over the status of this agreement and the proper disposition of the earnest money he paid. The dispute could lead to litigation. Departure of headquarters employees could leave the Trust severely short-handed. The Trust operates with a five person headquarters staff that, in the aggregate, has more than 130 years of service with the Trust. The employees expect that the pending sale of assets by the Trust will be followed by its liquidation. In the absence of any incentives to prevent early departures, staff losses are expected. With personnel needs unpredictable at this time, management expects that it will increasingly rely on temporary help to provide necessary office services. Inefficiencies are expected from the replacement of experienced employees with temporary help. GENERAL RISKS RELATED TO INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE Economic and regulatory changes that impact the real estate market generally may cause our operating results to suffer and decrease the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: 1) Changes in general or local economic conditions; 2) Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; 3) Changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; 4) Changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and 5) Periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These and other reasons may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish our return on those properties. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to distribute to shareholders. In addition, because properties' market values depend principally upon the value of the properties' leases, the resale value of properties with high or prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce the return to our shareholders. We depend on tenants for our revenue. Accordingly, lease defaults or terminations could reduce our net income and limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The success of our non-apartment investments materially depends on the financial stability of our tenants. A default or termination by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and require us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a tenant defaults on or terminates a significant lease, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. These events could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to shareholders. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage could reduce our net income. There are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution, or environmental matters, that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorist acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing mortgage loans. Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incur a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of that asset will be reduced by such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any working capital reserve or other reserves that we may establish, we do not have sources specifically designated for funding repairs or reconstruction of any uninsured damaged property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to shareholders. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our shareholders. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder our ability to sell, rent, or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants' operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may decrease our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in such property. These costs could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. FEDERAL INCOME TAX RISKS Failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates and/or penalties. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property. For example: 1) In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. 2) We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. 3) If we sell a property, other than foreclosure property, that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, our gain would be subject to the 100% "prohibited transaction" tax. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to our shareholders, which could increase our operating costs and decrease the value of an investment in us. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders each year 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). At times, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these distribution requirements and may need to borrow funds to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes. These borrowing needs could result from (i) differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes; (ii) the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures; (iii) the creation of reserves; or (iv) required debt or amortization payments. We may need to borrow funds at times when market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower the return to our shareholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. We may be required to make distributions to shareholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 