Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Risk Factors Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we continue to experience access line losses like we have in the past several years, our revenues, earnings and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Our business generates a substantial portion of its revenues by delivering voice and data services over access lines. We have experienced access line losses over the past several years, including a 5.7% decline during the year ended December 31, 2007 (exclusive of the Madison River acquisition), due to a number of factors, including increased competition and wireless and broadband substitution, which are described further below. We expect to continue to experience access line losses in our markets for an unforeseen period of time. Our inability to retain access lines could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations. We face competition, which we expect to intensify. As a result of various technological, regulatory and other changes, the telecommunications industry has become increasingly competitive, and we expect these trends to continue. In our LEC markets, we face competition from wireless telephone services, which we expect to increase if wireless providers continue to expand and improve their network coverage, offer fixed-rate calling plans, lower their prices and offer enhanced services. In certain of our LEC markets, we also face competition from cable television operators, CLECs and VoIP providers. Over time, we expect to face additional local exchange competition from more recent market entrants, including (i) electric utility and satellite communications providers and (ii) alternative networks or non-carrier systems designed to reduce demand for our switching or access services. The Internet, long distance and data services markets are also highly competitive, and we expect that competition will intensify in these and other markets that we serve. The recent proliferation of companies offering integrated service offerings has further intensified competition in the markets we serve. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new products and services. Our competitive position could be weakened by strategic alliances or consolidation within the communications industry or the development of new technologies. We cannot predict which future products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what funding will be required to develop and provide these products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on how well we market our products and services and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive and technological factors affecting the industry, including changes in regulation (which may affect us differently from our competitors), changes in consumer preferences or demographics, and changes in the product offerings or pricing strategies of our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, some of our competitors own larger and more diverse networks, can conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than we can, are subject to less regulation, have lower benefit plan costs, offer greater online content services, or have substantially stronger brand names. Consequently, some competitors may be better equipped than us to charge lower prices for their products and services, to provide more attractive offerings, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We could be harmed by rapid changes in technology. The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, particularly in the areas of VoIP, data transmission and wireless communications. Several large electric utilities have announced plans to offer communications services that will compete with LECs. Some of our competitors may enjoy network advantages that will enable them to provide services more efficiently or at lower cost. Rapid changes in technology could result in the development of additional products or services that compete with or displace those offered by traditional LECs, or that enable current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. We cannot predict with certainty which technological changes will provide the greatest threat to our competitive position. We may not be able to obtain timely access to new technology on satisfactory terms or incorporate new technology into our systems in a cost effective manner, or at all. If we cannot develop new products to keep pace with technological advances, or if such products are not widely embraced by our customers, we could be adversely impacted. We cannot assure you that our diversification efforts will be successful. Due to the above-cited changes, the telephone industry has recently experienced a decline in access lines and intrastate minutes of use. This decline in access lines and usage, coupled with the other changes resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, could materially adversely affect our core business and future prospects. Exclusive of the Madison River acquisition, our access lines declined 5.7% in 2007. Based on our planned results for recent sales and retention initiatives, we are targeting our access line loss to be between 4.5% and 6.0% in 2008. We also earned less intrastate revenues in 2007 due to reductions in intrastate minutes of use (partially due to the displacement of minutes of use by wireless, electronic mail and other optional calling services). We believe our intrastate minutes of use will continue to decline, although the magnitude of such decrease is uncertain. We have traditionally sought growth largely through acquisitions of properties similar to those currently operated by us. However, we cannot assure you that properties will be available for purchase on terms attractive to us, particularly if they are burdened by regulations, pricing plans or competitive pressures that are new or different from those historically applicable to our incumbent properties. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to arrange additional financing on terms acceptable to us or to obtain timely federal and state governmental approvals on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In recent years, we have attempted to broaden our services and products by offering satellite television services and reselling wireless services as part of our bundled product and service offerings. Our reliance on other companies and their networks to provide these services could constrain our flexibility and limit the profitability of these new offerings. In addition, during 2005 we launched our facilities-based digital video offering to select markets in Wisconsin and, in October 2007, we launched a second switched digital video offering in our Columbia, Missouri market. We may initiate other new service or product offerings in the future. We anticipate new offerings will generate lower profit margins than many of our traditional services. As such, to the extent revenues from these new offerings replace revenues lost from declines in our traditional LEC business, our overall profit margins will decline. We cannot assure you that our recent or future diversification efforts will be successful. Future deterioration in our financial performance could adversely impact our credit ratings, our cost of capital and our access to the capital markets. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively adjust to changes in our industry. The above-described changes in our industry have placed a higher premium on marketing, technological, engineering and provisioning skills. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retrain our staff to acquire or strengthen these skills, and, where necessary, to attract and retain new personnel that possess these skills. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. In the past several years, we have expanded our operations through acquisitions and new product and service offerings, some of which involve complex technical, engineering, and operational challenges. We may pursue similar opportunities in the future. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage our expansion opportunities, including our ability to: · retain and attract key personnel that have the skills necessary to implement and manage the new business opportunities · effectively manage our day to day operations while attempting to execute our strategy of expanding our business · realize the projected growth and revenue targets developed by management for our newly acquired and emerging businesses, and · continue to identify new acquisition or growth opportunities that we can finance, consummate and operate on attractive terms. Expansion opportunities pose substantial challenges for us to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. In addition, acquisitions entail the additional risk that we will incur unanticipated liabilities or contingencies of the acquired business, unbudgeted expenses or the loss of key employees or customers. We cannot assure you that our expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize our expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits. If we are not able to meet these challenges effectively, our results of operations may be harmed. Network disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high capacity, reliable and secure network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: · power losses or physical damage to our access lines, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise · capacity limitations · software and hardware defects · breaches of security, including sabotage, tampering, computer viruses and break-ins, and · other disruptions that are beyond our control. Disruptions or system failures may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. If service is not restored in a timely manner, agreements with our customers or service standards set by state regulatory commissions could obligate us to provide credits or other remedies, and this would reduce our revenues or increase our costs. Service disruptions could also damage our reputation with customers, causing us to lose existing customers or have difficulty attracting new ones. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure (including our billing systems) is important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs are important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors to operate our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing these network components on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. We also rely on a limited number of other communications companies in connection with reselling long distance, wireless and satellite entertainment services to our customers. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies or services on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties. Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating costs will increase. In addition, we rely on rights-of-way, co-location agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable, conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. Our relationships with other communications companies are material to our operations and their financial difficulties may adversely affect us. We originate and terminate calls for long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network in exchange for access charges that represent a significant portion of our revenues. Should these carriers go bankrupt or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to timely collect access charges from them could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our LightCore operations carry a significant amount of voice and data traffic for larger communications companies. As these larger communications companies consolidate or expand their networks, it is possible that they could transfer a significant portion of this traffic from our fiber network to their networks, which could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on key members of our senior management team. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers, none of whom are parties to employment agreements. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior managers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. We could be affected by certain changes in labor matters. At December 31, 2007, approximately 25% of our employees were members of 15 separate bargaining units represented by two different unions. From time to time, our labor agreements with these unions lapse, and we typically negotiate the terms of new agreements. We cannot predict the outcome of these negotiations. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services. In addition, new labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Moreover, our post-employment benefit offerings cause us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment Our revenues could be materially reduced or our expenses materially increased by changes in regulations. The majority of our revenues are substantially dependent upon regulations which, if changed, could result in material revenue reductions. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed by federal or state legislators. Any of the following could significantly impact us: Risk of loss or reduction of network access charge revenues. A significant portion of our network access revenues are paid to us by intrastate and interstate long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the regions we serve. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based largely on rates set by federal and state regulatory bodies, and such rates could change. The FCC is currently weighing several proposals to comprehensively reform the intercarrier compensation regime in order to create a uniform system of intercarrier payments. Any reform eventually adopted by the FCC will likely involve significant changes in the access charge system and could potentially result in a significant decrease or elimination of access charges altogether. In addition, our financial results could be harmed if carriers that use our access services become financially distressed or bypass our networks, either due to changes in regulation or other factors. Furthermore, access charges currently paid to us could be diverted to competitors who enter our markets or expand their operations, either due to changes in regulation or otherwise. Risk of loss or reduction of support fund payments. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from the federal Universal Service Fund and, to a lesser extent, intrastate support funds. These governmental programs are reviewed and amended from time to time, and we cannot assure you that they will not be changed or impacted in a manner adverse to us. In August 2004, a federal-state joint board requested comments on the FCC’s current rules for high-cost support payments to rural telephone companies, including comments on whether eligibility requirements should be amended in a manner that would adversely affect larger rural LECs such as us. In May 2007, this board proposed that the FCC consider an interim cap on the amount of the high-cost support that competitive eligible telecommunications carriers may receive. Several parties have objected to the size of the USF or questioned the continued need to maintain the program in its current form. Pending judicial appeals and Congressional proposals create additional uncertainty regarding our future receipt of support payments. We cannot estimate the impact that these developments will have on us. We expect our 2008 high cost support fund revenues to be approximately $14 to $17 million lower than 2007 due to (i) an expected increase in the nationwide average cost per loop factor and (ii) an expected decline in the overall size of the high cost support fund. In addition, the number of eligible telecommunications carriers receiving support payments from this program continues to increase, which, coupled with other factors, has placed additional financial pressure on the amount of money that is necessary and available to provide support payments to all eligible recipients, including us. Risk of loss of statutory exemption from burdensome interconnection rules imposed on incumbent local exchange carriers. Affiliates of ours operating approximately half of our telephone access lines are exempt from the 1996 Act’s more burdensome requirements governing the rights of competitors to interconnect to incumbent local exchange carrier networks and to utilize discrete network elements of the incumbent’s network at favorable rates. If state regulators decide that it is in the public’s interest to impose these more burdensome interconnection requirements on us, these affiliates would be required to provide unbundled network elements to competitors. As a result, more competitors could enter our traditional telephone markets than we currently expect, resulting in lower revenues and higher additional administrative and regulatory expenses. Risk of losses from rate reductions. Notwithstanding the movement toward alternative state regulation, LECs operating approximately 28% of our total access lines continue to be subject to “rate of return” regulation for intrastate purposes. These LECs remain subject to the powers of state regulatory commissions to conduct earnings reviews and adjust service rates, which could lead to revenue reductions. LECs governed by alternative regulatory plans could also under certain circumstances be ordered to reduce rates or could experience rate reductions following the lapse of plans currently in effect. The FCC regulates tariffs for interstate access and subscriber line charges, both of which are components of our revenues. As noted above, the FCC currently is considering proposals to reduce interstate access charges for carriers like us. We could be adversely affected if the FCC lowers or eliminates interstate access charges without adopting an adequate revenue replacement mechanism. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, minimizing environmental impacts, or addressing other issues that impact our business (including local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements). For example, existing provisions of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act require communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance. We expect our compliance costs to increase if future legislation or regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us. The 1996 Act provides for significant changes and increased competition in the communications industry, including the local communications and long distance industries. This Act and the FCC’s implementing regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to predict what effect the legislation will ultimately have on us and our competitors. Several regulatory and judicial proceedings have recently concluded, are underway or may soon be commenced, which address issues affecting our operations and those of our competitors. Moreover, certain communities nationwide have expressed an interest in establishing a municipal telephone utility that would compete for customers. We cannot predict the outcome of these developments, nor can we assure that these changes will not have a material adverse effect on us or our industry. We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility. As a diversified full service incumbent local exchange carrier, or ILEC, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does not apply to many of our competitors. For instance, unlike many of our competitors, we are subject to federal mandates to share facilities, file and justify tariffs, maintain certain accounts and file reports, and state requirements that obligate us to maintain service standards and limit our ability to change tariffs in a timely manner. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry conditions. Although newer alternative forms of regulation permit us greater freedoms in several states in which we operate, they nonetheless typically impose caps on the rates that we can charge our customers. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. Litigation and different objectives among federal and state regulators could create uncertainty and impede our ability to respond to new regulations. Moreover, changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could increase our tax rate, particularly if state regulators continue to search for additional revenue sources to address budget shortfalls. We are unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern us, but such actions could materially affect our business. We are subject to franchising requirements that could impede our expansion opportunities. We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities operating franchises to install or expand facilities. Some of these franchises may require us to pay franchise fees. These franchising requirements generally apply to our fiber transport and CLEC operations, and to our emerging switched digital television and wireless broadband businesses. These requirements could delay us in expanding our operations or increase the costs of providing these services. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. The annual evaluation of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may result in identifying material weaknesses in our internal controls. Any future failure to successfully or timely complete these annual assessments could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. If we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could in certain instances limit our ability to borrow or raise capital. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see “Operations” above. Other Risks We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may need to incur more in the future. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness , which could have material adverse consequences for us, including (i) hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions; (ii) limiting our ability to access the capital markets to refinance maturing debt or to fund acquisitions or emerging businesses; (iii) limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses; (iv) making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; and (v) placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that have less indebtedness. In connection with executing our business strategies, we are continuously evaluating the possibility of acquiring additional communications assets, and we may elect to finance acquisitions by incurring additional indebtedness. Moreover, to respond to the competitive challenges discussed above, we may be required to raise substantial additional capital to finance new product or service offerings. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected. As a result, our borrowing costs would likely increase, our access to capital may be adversely affected and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness could be adversely affected. As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to, or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to, us. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. Certain of our subsidiaries may be restricted under loan agreements or regulatory orders from transferring funds to us, including certain loan provisions that restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. The footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein describe these matters in additional detail. Our agreements and organizational documents and applicable law could limit another party’s ability to acquire us. Under our articles of incorporation, each share of common stock that has been beneficially owned by the same person or entity continually since May 30, 1987 generally entitles the holder to ten votes on all matters duly submitted to a vote of shareholders. As of January 31, 2008, we estimate that the holders of our ten-vote shares held approximately 26% of our total voting power. Our articles also provide for a classified board of directors, which limits the ability of an insurgent to rapidly replace the board. In addition, a number of other provisions in our agreements and organizational documents and various provisions of applicable law may delay, defer or prevent a future takeover of CenturyTel unless the takeover is approved by our board of directors. This could deprive our shareholders of any related takeover premium. We face other risks. The list of risks above is not exhaustive, and you should be aware that we face various other risks. For a description of additional risks, please see “Operations” above, “Forward-Looking Statements” below, and the other items of this annual report, particularly Items 3, 7 and 8. Forward-Looking Statements This report on Form 10-K and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws include, and future oral or written statements or press releases by us and our management may include, certain forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements with respect to our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, investment results, financing opportunities and sources (including the impact of financings on our financial position, financial performance or credit ratings), pricing plans, strategic alternatives, business strategies, and other similar statements of expectations or objectives or accompanying statements of assumptions that are highlighted by words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “projects,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “hopes,” “should,” “could,” and “may,” and variations thereof and similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are outside of our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which such statements are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from such statements. These uncertainties include but are not limited to those set forth below: · the extent, timing, success and overall effects of competition from wireless carriers, VoIP providers, CLECs, cable television companies, electric utilities and others, including without limitation the risks that these competitors may offer less expensive or more innovative products and services · the risks inherent in rapid technological change, including without limitation the risk that new technologies will displace our products and services · the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including without limitation (i) increased competition resulting from the FCC’s regulations relating to interconnection and other matters, (ii) the final outcome of various federal, state and local regulatory initiatives and proceedings that could impact our competitive position, revenues, compliance costs, capital expenditures or prospects, and (iii) reductions in revenues received from the federal Universal Service Fund or other current or future federal and state support programs designed to compensate LECs operating in high-cost markets · our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry · our ability to effectively manage our growth, including without limitation our ability to (i) effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including successfully integrating newly-acquired businesses into our operations, (ii) attract and retain technological, managerial and other key personnel, (iii) achieve projected growth, revenue and cost savings targets, and (iv) otherwise monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance, and service quality and maintain other necessary internal controls · possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including without limitation reduced demand for traditional telephone services caused by greater use of wireless or Internet communications or other factors and reduced demand for our access services · our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis, including without limitation our ability to (i) successfully roll out our new video, voice and broadband services, (ii) expand successfully our long distance, Internet access and fiber transport service offerings to new or acquired markets and (iii) offer bundled service packages on terms attractive to our customers · our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms, including our continued access to financing in amounts, and on terms and conditions, necessary to support our operations and refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due · our ability to collect receivables from financially troubled communications companies · our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages · regulatory limits on our ability to change the prices for telephone services in response to industry changes · impediments to our ability to expand through attractively priced acquisitions, whether caused by regulatory limits, financing constraints, a decrease in the pool of attractive target companies, or competition for acquisitions from other interested buyers · the possible need to make abrupt and potentially disruptive changes in our business strategies due to changes in competition, regulation, technology, product acceptance or other factors · the lack of assurance that we can compete effectively against better-capitalized competitors · the impact of network disruptions on our business · the effects of adverse weather on our customers or properties · other risks referenced in this report and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission · the effects of more general factors, including without limitation: \ changes in general industry and market conditions and growth rates \ changes in labor conditions, including workforce levels and labor costs \ changes in interest rates or other general national, regional or local economic conditions \ changes in legislation, regulation or public policy, including changes in federal rural financing programs or changes that increase our tax rate \ increases in capital, operating, medical or administrative costs, or the impact of new business opportunities requiring significant up-front investments \ changes in our relationships with vendors, or the failure of these vendors to provide competitive products on a timely basis \ failures in our internal controls that could result in inaccurate public disclosures or fraud \ changes in our debt ratings \ unfavorable outcomes of regulatory or legal proceedings, including rate proceedings and tax audits \ losses or unfavorable returns on our investments in other communications companies \ delays in the construction of our networks \ changes in accounting policies, assumptions, estimates or practices adopted voluntarily or as required by generally accepted accounting principles, including the possible future unavailability of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 to our wireline subsidiaries. For additional information, see the description of our business included above, as well as Item 7 of this report. Due to these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that our anticipated results will occur, that our judgments or assumptions will prove correct, or that unforeseen developments will not occur. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon any of our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected in our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 