ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, as described at page 3 of this report under the caption “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” We believe that the risks described below are the most important factors which may cause our actual future results of operations to differ materially from the results projected in the forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from the sale of defense related products, primarily ceramic body armor. If demand for ceramic body armor declines, if federal budget appropriations involving our products are reduced, if we fail to obtain new government contracts or delivery orders under existing contracts, or if existing government contracts or orders are cancelled, our revenues, profit and cash flow will be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, a substantial portion of our revenues has been derived from the sale of defense related products, particularly ceramic body armor, either directly or indirectly to the U.S. government. The sale of defense related products represented 29.1% of our revenues in 2010, 49.6% in 2009 and 61.8% in 2008. We anticipate that a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of defense related products. Our dependence on defense related business, and on sales of ceramic armor in particular, entails several risks, including those described below. Our defense business is highly sensitive to changes in national and international defense and budget priorities. For example, in the years 2003 through 2007, our revenues from the sale of ceramic body armor increased significantly due to the U.S. military’s acceleration of its program to equip its soldiers with ceramic body armor systems, in part, because of the war in Iraq. In 2008, however, demand for ceramic body armor began to decline due in part to the reduction in hostilities in Iraq and because most combat troops were already equipped with the current generation of ceramic body armor, known as ESAPI. The outlook for ceramic body armor in 2011 and beyond is uncertain for several reasons, including uncertainty regarding the rate at which U.S. troops will be withdrawn from Iraq and Afghanistan, and the rate at which the U.S. military will proceed with implementing the next ballistic threat generation of ceramic body armor plates, known as XSAPI (discussed further below). Demand for ceramic body armor could decline further from 2010 levels for a variety of reasons, including a lessening of conflicts in the Middle East and other high risk areas, or a reduction in U.S. defense budget appropriations. If that were to occur, our revenues from the sale of defense related products would be reduced and our profit and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Many defense contracts are awarded in an open competitive bidding process, and our past success in winning government contracts does not guarantee that we will win any new contracts in the future. Our success depends upon our ability to successfully compete for and retain such government contracts. If we, or if prime contractors for which we are a subcontractor, fail to win any future bids, or if we are unable to replace business lost upon cancellation, expiration or completion of a contract, our revenues, profit and cash flow from the sale of defense related products would be reduced. Moreover, government contracts typically may be cancelled by the government at any time without penalty, other than our right to be reimbursed for certain expenses and inventory. If the U.S. government were to cancel any of our government contracts, our revenues, profit and cash flow would be reduced. In October 2008, we were awarded an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) contract by the U.S. Army for the next ballistic threat generation of ceramic body armor plates, known as XSAPI, as well as for the current generation of ESAPI plates. This five-year contract has a maximum value of $2.3 billion. However, we anticipate that the government will order either XSAPI or ESAPI, but not both. Therefore, the total amount of this ID/IQ award likely will not exceed $1.1 billion over the life of the contract. One of our competitors was awarded a similar ID/IQ contract. We expect that government orders under these contracts will be split among ourselves and our competitor, so our sales under our contract will likely be less than the $1.1 billion possible total amount. Moreover, we believe we will not receive significant additional delivery orders for XSAPI as the U.S. has shown more interest in procuring body armor that weighs less than the current ESAPI and XSAPI body armor inserts while being able to defeat similar ballistic threats. We are currently developing ESAPI and XSAPI designs that weigh 10% to 15% less than the current designs and will offer these to the U.S. Army and other Department of Defense users once these designs meet the current requirements. There is no assurance that we will be successful with these lighter weight designs. For the next several quarters, demand for ceramic body armor is likely to be the most significant factor affecting our sales. 26 Although we believe that demand for ceramic body armor will continue for many years, the quantity and timing of government orders depends on a number of factors outside of our control, such as the amount of U.S. defense budget appropriations, positions and strategies of the current U.S. government, the level of international conflicts and the deployment of armed forces. Our future level of sales of ceramic body armor will depend on our ability to successfully compete for and retain this business. If we are not successful in obtaining and retaining sufficient new body armor business to keep our manufacturing capacity utilized, we may be required to record impairment charges for the reduction in value of our fixed assets devoted to manufacturing body armor. If this were to occur, our earnings would be reduced in the period we incur the impairment charge. If the performance requirements for ceramic body armor are modified by the U.S. military, we may incur delays or additional costs to change the design of our product, or we may not be able to satisfy the new requirements with our existing ceramic materials and processes. If this were to occur, our costs could increase and our revenues, profit and cash flow would decline. The ceramic body armor we manufacture must comply with stringent performance specifications established by the U.S. military, such as weight and the level of ballistic protection it must provide, and these specifications may be modified by the military in new procurements, as well as under existing contracts. For example, during the quarter ended March 31, 2005, the U.S. military directed us to modify the specifications of the lightweight ceramic body armor that we had been manufacturing, from the version commonly referred to as SAPI (small arms protective insert), to a revised requirement commonly referred to as ESAPI (enhanced small arms protective insert). The revised requirement is more difficult to manufacture than the SAPI version. The change to this new design resulted in production delays and increased costs to us during the first quarter of 2005 as we developed new designs to meet the revised requirement and experienced manufacturing inefficiencies. In the future, the U.S. military may make additional changes to the performance requirements for body armor, and we may experience delays or additional costs to satisfy the new requirements, or we may be unable to meet the new requirements at all with our existing ceramic materials and processes. If this were to occur, our revenues from ceramic body armor would decline and our profitability would suffer. If demand for our products declines, we may have inefficient or under-utilized capacity, and our gross margins, profit and cash flow may suffer. In response to the increased demand for ceramic body armor for military personnel and cam rollers for diesel engines, as well as our other products, we added significant manufacturing capacity since early 2002. Demand for our products, particularly ceramic armor and cam rollers, may not remain at levels sufficient to utilize all of our manufacturing capacity. Much of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment, such as our furnaces and hot presses, are special purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. Also, a substantial amount of the boron carbide powder produced by ESK Ceramics is currently used by us and our competitors to make ceramic body armor. If the demand for ceramic body armor declines substantially from current levels, ESK Ceramics may have significant under-utilized capacity for boron carbide powder. Therefore, a substantial decline in demand for our ceramic body armor or cam rollers could result in significant excess manufacturing capacity, which would result in under absorption of overhead expense and reduced profit, and we may be required to record impairment charges for the reduction in value of our fixed assets devoted to manufacturing these products. If this were to occur, our earnings would be reduced in the period we incur the impairment charge. We have been manufacturing ceramic cam rollers for heavy-duty diesel engines since 1999, and now have production contracts to supply cam rollers to several major engine companies. We expect that sales of these cam rollers will begin to decline in 2013 when new U.S. environmental regulations take effect in 2013 for off-highway applications. Additionally the costs to produce cam rollers has increased over the years, one reason being the decline in sales. However in 2010 several efforts were successfully made to increase pricing of these components. If we fail to increase our non-defense revenue, and if the demand for ceramic body armor decreases, our revenues, profit and cash flow will be materially and adversely affected. In 2010, 29.1% of our revenues were from sales of defense-related products. Because our dependence on defense-related products exposes us to significant risks, part of our business strategy is to continue to increase our non-defense revenue base by identifying new products and markets for our advanced technical ceramics, and by increasing sales to our existing non-defense customers. Our ability to execute this strategy successfully depends, in part, on our ability to increase market acceptance of our advanced technical ceramics as a replacement for materials such as metals, plastics and traditional ceramics. While advanced technical ceramics have certain advantages over other materials, such as the ability to withstand extremely high temperatures and combining hardness with light weight, they are more expensive to produce. As a result, the market for advanced technical ceramic products may be limited to high-end applications where price is not a critical competitive factor, where the characteristics of advanced technical ceramics may justify the higher costs compared to other materials or where other materials are not suitable. Due to these limitations on the market for advanced technical ceramics, the market for our products may not grow as we anticipate and we may not be able to increase our non-defense revenue base. If we are unable to execute this strategy, and if the demand for ceramic body armor decreases, our revenues, profit and cash flow will be materially and adversely affected. 27 A significant reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or change in government policies may have a material adverse effect on our ceramic crucible business and prospects. Our ceramic crucibles are used by several photovoltaic cell manufacturers for melting silicon in order to produce polycrystalline silicon wafers used in photovoltaic solar cells. Demand for our ceramic crucibles depends substantially on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. In many countries in which we currently sell our ceramic crucibles, the solar power markets, particularly the market of on-grid photovoltaic solar systems, would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed for the foreseeable future, the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental concerns in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energies in those countries. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many of our customers’ key markets, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, France, South Korea, Taiwan, India, Japan and China have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether. If that were to occur, sales of our ceramic crucibles could decline substantially. Growth in our operations may strain our resources, and if we fail to successfully manage potential future growth, we could incur higher operating costs and delays in the production of our products, which could result in reduced revenues, profit and cash flow. The introduction of new products and recent acquisitions of other businesses, are placing, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our operational, financial and managerial resources and personnel. To effectively manage potential future growth, we must continue to: • add manufacturing capacity and personnel; • implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems; • develop the management skills of our managers and supervisors; • add new management personnel; and • train, motivate and manage our employees. Any failure to effectively manage growth could result in increased operating costs and delays in the development and production of our products. If this occurs, our revenues, profit and cash flow could decline. We may generate less profit than expected or even lose money on our fixed price government contracts. Most of our government contracts provide for a predetermined, fixed price for the products we sell regardless of the costs we incur. When making proposals for fixed-price contracts, we must rely on our ability to accurately estimate our costs and ability to manufacture and deliver the products on time and at a reasonable profit. Our actual production costs may, however, exceed forecasts due to unanticipated delays or increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors. As a result, we may incur losses on fixed price contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than we expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Our business is subject to various laws and regulations favoring the U.S. government’s contractual position, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. These rules generally favor the U.S. government’s contractual position. For example, these regulations and laws include provisions that allow unsuccessful bidders to protest or challenge contracts we have been awarded, and allow the government to unilaterally terminate, reduce or modify our government contracts. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. government under fixed-price contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management’s attention. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We currently depend entirely on 3M Unitek for sales of our ceramic orthodontic brackets. If we are unable to maintain our existing level of business with 3M Unitek our revenues, profit and cash flow from this product line will decline. We sell our ceramic orthodontic brackets exclusively to 3M Unitek under a supply agreement with 3M Unitek that expires in December 2013. Under the terms of this agreement, 3M Unitek is required to purchase their Clarity and Transcend brand ceramic orthodontic product lines exclusively from us for as long as 3M Unitek continues to sell those products. This agreement further stipulates that Unitek must purchase from Ceradyne at least 50% of the ceramic orthodontic brackets 3M Unitek requires for next generation designs, which it introduced in 2007. Except under limited circumstances, Ceradyne is not permitted to sell ceramic orthodontic brackets to any other customers under this agreement. As a result of our agreement with 3M Unitek, our revenue from ceramic orthodontic brackets is dependent entirely upon 3M Unitek. 3M Unitek also offers traditional stainless steel orthodontic brackets. We cannot guarantee that 3M Unitek will devote substantial marketing efforts to the sale of our ceramic orthodontic brackets, or that 3M Unitek will not reassess its commitment to our product. If 3M Unitek fails to actively market our ceramic orthodontic brackets or decides to promote a competing product over ours, this could cause the sales of our ceramic orthodontic brackets to decline. Moreover, the first of our two patents for our ceramic orthodontic brackets, which we jointly own with 3M Unitek, expired in September 2007. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from manufacturing and selling competitive ceramic orthodontic brackets. Ceramic orthodontic brackets manufactured and sold by third parties may be less expensive than ours and may cause sales of our ceramic orthodontic brackets to decline either as a result of pricing pressure or loss of market share. In addition, the future success of our ceramic orthodontic brackets depends on our ability to maintain and increase market acceptance for our product compared to other competitive solutions, including traditional stainless steel brackets and newer products such as transparent plastic orthodontic aligners, synthetic sapphire brackets and other ceramic brackets. If 3M Unitek reduces its purchases of ceramic orthodontic brackets from us or if competitive products gain market share, the sales of our ceramic orthodontic brackets may decline, resulting in a decrease in our revenues, profit and cash flow. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. Shipments to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 51.7% of our sales in 2010, 33.9% of our sales in 2009 and 27.0% of our sales in 2008. Our ESK Ceramics subsidiary is located in Germany. Its sales to customers located outside of the United States represented approximately 95.6% of its total sales during 2010, approximately 74.7% of its total sales during 2009, and approximately 70.7% of its total sales during 2008. The increase in foreign sales in 2010 compared to 2009 was due primarily to increased sales of our products in the Asian market as a result of the opening, in June 2007, of our 98,000 square foot facility in Tianjin, China, where we manufacture ceramic crucibles, primarily for the Chinese market. We commenced construction in 2010 of an additional 218,000 square foot facility in Tianjin, China to expand production capacity for ceramic crucibles. We believe that this new facility, which we completed in January 2011, will facilitate further growth in sales in the Asian market. We anticipate that international shipments will account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the following risks associated with international business activities could have material adverse effects on our performance: 29 • burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including export requirements, tariffs and other barriers, health and safety requirements, and unexpected changes in any of these factors; • difficulty in staffing and managing international operations; • differences in intellectual property protections; • difficulty in obtaining export licenses from the U.S. government for sales of our defense-related products; • potentially adverse tax consequences due to overlapping or differing tax structures; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • risks associated with operating a business in a potentially unstable political climate. We have traditionally invoiced our sales from the United States to customers in foreign countries in U.S. dollars. Consequently, if the U.S. dollar becomes more expensive relative to the currencies of our foreign customers, the price of our products that we export from the United States to those countries will rise and our sales into those countries may fall. In addition, in the future, we may be required to denominate foreign sales in the local currencies of our customers. In that case, if the U.S. dollar were to become more expensive relative to the currencies of our foreign customers, we would receive fewer U.S. dollars for each unit of foreign currency that we receive when our customers pay us. Therefore, a more expensive U.S. dollar would cause us to incur losses upon the conversion of accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies. Such losses could harm our results of operations. Our ESK Ceramics subsidiary, located in Kempten, Germany invoices approximately 76.5% of its sales in Euros. ESK Ceramics’ sales to customers located in the United States are invoiced in U.S. dollars. If the Euro becomes more expensive relative to the currencies of ESK Ceramics’ customers located outside the European Union, the price of its products sold to customers in those countries will rise and its sales into those countries may fall. We may make future acquisitions which may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs, or dilute our stockholders. Part of our continuing business strategy is to make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current products, enhance our market coverage, technical capabilities or production capacity, or offer growth opportunities. Future acquisitions could pose numerous risks to our operations, including: • we may have difficulty integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • we may incur substantial unanticipated integration costs; • assimilating the acquired businesses may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business; • acquisitions could result in the loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired operations; • we may have difficulty retaining or developing the acquired businesses’ customers; • acquisitions could adversely affect our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • we may fail to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the strategic benefits of the acquisitions; and • we may incur liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claims, and we may not be successful in seeking indemnification for such liabilities or claims. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we could incur debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, assume liabilities, or issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage of ownership. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of electricity is a significant portion of our cost of product sales. An increase in the cost of electricity may cause our profit margins to decline. Electricity is essential for the production of our products and comprises a significant portion of our cost of product sales. The cost of electricity for our manufacturing operations in the United States, Europe and China was approximately $14.7 million during 2010, approximately $12.7 million during 2009, and approximately $13.2 million during 2008. Over the last several years, the cost of electricity from utility companies has increased, particularly in California. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we closed our hot press manufacturing operation in Costa Mesa, California as a result of reduced demand for ceramic body armor solutions and the high cost of doing business in the State, especially the high cost of electricity, which is integral to our manufacturing operations. We consolidated all hot press operations into our existing manufacturing plant in Lexington, Kentucky. We recognized a restructuring charge of $3.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 to write down the value of long-lived assets associated with the closure of the hot press manufacturing operation in Costa Mesa, California. 30 Management utilizes utility industry specialists and consultants to help manage and implement strategies to minimize annual price increases at its Advanced Ceramic Operations’ facilities located in California. For other locations in the United States and Germany, management’s strategy is to enter into long term contracts to obtain fixed price increases in order to increase its ability to accurately forecast future energy costs and ensure a stable cost structure. Fluctuations in the cost of electricity affect our ability to accurately forecast future energy costs and consequently our profitability. If the cost of electricity were to increase substantially, our gross profit margins may decline. We may not be able to adequately safeguard our intellectual property rights and trade secrets from unauthorized use, and we may become subject to claims that we infringe on others’ intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements with employees and customers and other protective measures to preserve our proprietary rights to our products and production processes. These measures afford only limited protection and may not preclude competitors from developing products or processes similar or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although we implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights, these efforts may not be successful. From time to time, we may litigate within the United States or abroad to enforce our issued or licensed patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, requires management’s attention and might not bring us timely or effective relief. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our products or processes infringe their patent rights. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Although there are no pending or threatened intellectual property lawsuits against us, we may face litigation or infringement claims in the future. Infringement claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources even if we ultimately prevail. A third party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products. Although we may seek licenses from third parties covering intellectual property that we are allegedly infringing, we may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we were to lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to recruit qualified managers and key personnel in the future. Our success depends on the continued service of our management team and key personnel, including Joel P. Moskowitz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President; David P. Reed, our Vice President, and President of North American Operations; Jerrold J. Pellizzon, our Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary; and Thomas Jüngling, the President of our ESK Ceramics subsidiary. Mr. Moskowitz was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in October 2004. He completed chemotherapy treatments in January 2005, and his current diagnosis indicates that the non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma is in remission. If Mr. Moskowitz becomes unable to continue working due to health reasons, or if one or more of these individuals were to resign or otherwise terminate their employment with us, we could experience a loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, and we may have difficulty replacing any of these individuals. We do not have employment agreements or key person insurance on any of our executive employees. Competition for qualified managers and key personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain such personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing managers and employees or hire and integrate new personnel, we may experience operating inefficiencies, production delays and reduced profitability. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to a number of operational risks, including hazards associated with ceramic manufacturing and natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our productivity and results of operations. 31 Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to hazards associated with ceramic manufacturing, such as: • accidents or mechanical failure; • fires or explosions of furnaces; and • employee exposure to extreme temperatures or hazardous substances. In addition, the location of our facilities exposes us to potential earthquakes and other natural disasters. These hazards may cause personal injury, loss of life and damage to property, which could lead to a substantial interruption or suspension of operations, potential loss of customers and sales, government fines and lawsuits by injured persons. Any such consequences could have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole. Defects in our products could harm our reputation for quality products, increase our operating expenses, reduce sales of our products and impact cash flow. Our products have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, errors or defects that may be detected at any point in the life of the products. Such errors could result in delays in shipping and sales during the period required for their correction and additional expense associated with their reworking or replacement. Real or perceived defects in our products may result in product returns, loss of sales, delays in market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased warranty costs, which could reduce our sales and profit. For example, in March 2002, the U.S. government notified us that several lots of our SAPI lightweight ceramic body armor failed to pass ballistics reverification tests. As a result, we stopped production of our SAPI product, modified the design of our product and resumed shipping approximately four months later. In addition, we agreed to correct or replace at our expense all supplies of our SAPI product sales that did not meet the original contractual requirements. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our revenues could decline. Our products compete with advanced technical ceramic products from other companies, as well as with high strength steel alloys and plastic products. When competing with other advanced technical ceramic products, we believe the principal competitive factors are: • manufacturing capacity and the ability to deliver products; • price; • product performance; • material specifications; • application engineering capabilities; • customer support; and • reputation. When competing with high strength steel alloys and plastic products, we may not be able to compete effectively when price is a primary consideration, because our products are typically more expensive as a result of higher manufacturing costs associated with the production of advanced technical ceramics. Some of our competitors include Armor Works, The Protective Group, Ceramtec, the Armor Holdings and Cercom subsidiaries of BAE Systems, CoorsTek, Denka, Momentive Performance Materials, Hitachi, HC Starck, Kyocera’s Industrial Ceramics Group, Morgan, Saint Gobain, Kennametal, Spectra-Mat, UK Abrasives, Vesuvius, C-E Minerals, NHTC, Holtec, Nukem and General Electric. Many of our current or potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do. If we fail to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, our revenues, profit and cash flow could decline. Uninsured losses arising from third party claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages, which would decrease our cash reserves and could harm our profit and cash flow. Our products are used in applications where the failure to use our products properly or their malfunction could result in serious bodily injury or death. We may not have adequate insurance to cover the payment of any potential claim related to such injuries or deaths. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us or, if available, may be at a significantly higher cost. 32 We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure or inability to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties and result in a loss of our government contracts, which could reduce our revenues, profit and cash flow. We must comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and our internal organization and operation of our business. Furthermore, we have production contracts with governmental entities and are subject to additional rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. We are also subject to routine audits to assure our compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties and the loss of our government contracts and disqualification as a U.S. government contractor. As a result, our revenues, profit and cash flow could be reduced. In addition, a number of our employees involved with defense related business are required to obtain security clearances from the U.S. government. Our business may suffer if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances that are required. Like other companies operating internationally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in severe criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we could incur an increase in our operating costs and a decrease in our profit and cash flow. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used to manufacture our products. Authorities could impose fines, suspend production, alter our manufacturing processes, or stop our operations if we do not comply with these regulations. Until 1997, we produced certain products using beryllium oxide, which is highly toxic in powder form. This powder, if inhaled, can cause chronic beryllium disease in a small percentage of the population. We have been sued in the past by former employees and by employees of one of our customers and by their family members alleging that they had contracted chronic beryllium disease as a result of exposure to beryllium oxide powders used in our products. The last of these claims was settled in 2002, and all of these claims have been dismissed without our incurring material liability. We may not, however, be able to avoid future liability to persons who may allege that they contracted chronic beryllium disease as a result of exposure to the beryllium oxide we used in prior years. Any failure to comply with current or subsequently enacted environmental statutes and regulations could subject us to liabilities, fines or the suspension of production. Furthermore, any claims asserted against us in the future related to exposure to beryllium oxide powder may not be covered by insurance. Even if covered, the amount of insurance may be inadequate to cover any adverse judgment. Fines and other punishments imposed on us for environmental violations and expenses we incur to remedy or comply with environmental regulations and future liability for incidences of chronic beryllium disease contracted by employees or employees of customers would decrease our cash reserves and could harm our profitability. Our long term investments are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our long term investments at December 31, 2010 included $15.8 million of auction rate securities which is net of the cumulative to date pre-tax impairment and pre-tax other than temporary impairment charges. Cumulatively to date, we have incurred $9.2 million in pre-tax charges due to other-than-temporary reductions in the value of our investments in auction rate securities, realized losses of $4.9 million from sales of auction rate securities and pre-tax temporary impairment charges of $2.3 million reflected in other comprehensive income. Our investments in auction rate securities represent interests in insurance securitizations collateralized by pools of residential and commercial mortgages, asset backed securities and other structured credits relating to the credit risk of various bond guarantors that mature at various dates from June 2021 through July 2052. These auction rate securities were intended to provide liquidity via an auction process which is scheduled every 28 days, that resets the applicable interest rate, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. Interest rates are capped at a floating rate of one month LIBOR plus additional spread ranging from 1.25% to 4.00% depending on prevailing rating. During the second half of the year 2007, through 2008, 2009 and 2010, the auctions for these securities failed. As a result of current negative conditions in the global credit markets, auctions for our investment in these securities have recently failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, investments are not currently liquid through the normal auction process and may be liquidated if a buyer is found outside the auction process. Although the auctions have failed, we continue to receive underlying cash flows in the form of interest income from the investments in auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities was below cost by approximately $11.5 million. The fair value of the auction rate securities has been below cost for more than one year. If they remain illiquid and a buyer is not found outside the auction process, the value of these securities may decline further. 33 We review impairments associated with our auction rate securities each reporting period to determine the classification of the impairment as “temporary” or “other-than-temporary.” A temporary impairment charge results in an unrealized loss being recorded in the other comprehensive income component of stockholders’ equity. Such an unrealized loss does not reduce net income for the applicable accounting period because the loss is not viewed as other-than-temporary. We believe that a portion of the impairment of our auction rate securities investments is temporary and a portion is other-than-temporary. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, and this trend may continue. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include: • initiation of coverage by securities analysts, securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations and any expressed beliefs of securities analysts regarding our business prospects or estimated trading multiples; • our perceived prospects; • variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved our key business targets; • the limited number of shares of our common stock available for purchase or sale in the public markets; • sales or purchases of large blocks of our stock; • changes in, or our failure to meet, our earnings estimates; • differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; • decreases in our trading multiples on an absolute basis or relative to comparable companies; • announcements of new contracts by us or our competitors; • market reaction to any future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; • developments in the financial markets; • market reaction to any adverse publicity or news stories; and • general economic, political or stock market conditions. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control, and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. We are subject to the provisions of section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions prohibit large stockholders, in particular a stockholder owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination with a corporation unless this stockholder receives board approval for the transaction or 66 2/3% of the shares of voting stock not owned by the stockholder approve the merger or transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 