ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following risk factors and any other information set forth in this Form 10-K and our other reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission), including the Company's financial statements and related notes, in evaluating the Company's business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that impact on the Company's operations and business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair its business or operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial condition, results or prospects could be harmed. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS IN THE MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY FIELD The Company has a limited history with respect to the manufacture, sale and distribution of TMAs. Medical technology is constantly evolving and there can be no assurance that our TMAa will keep pace with medical breakthroughs. The Company's ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow over time will be dependent upon, among other things, its ability to (i) continue to develop new TMA products and market these products both in China and other developing companies and (ii) its ability to evaluate the merits of pursuing the beauty supply business and its success in developing franchise opportunities despite no prior experience. OUR BUSINESS IS HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON THE ECONOMIC GROWTH OF CHINA At the current time, our business is heavily dependent on the economy and developing middle and upper class in China. Should the country suffer an economic downturn or should the government imposed restrictions on the growth of private companies and the ability of a large consumer class to earn money in the private sector our business will suffer. To the extent that any of the foregoing should occur, our revenues will decline significantly. 9 WE HAVE LOANED APPROXIMATELY $0.09 MILLION TO NON-AFFILIATED THIRD PARTIESS In order to maximize returns on available cash, the Company has outstanding unsecured loans totaling approximately $0.09 million, representing 0.9% of the Company's assets. The loans were placed to earn interest income. However, in the event of a default, the Company risks substantial loss of their ability to continue to finance ongoing operations. Litigation could be costly to enforce the loan obligations and may deprive us of the use of the cash for a significant period of time. As of December 31, 2011, the principal balance and interest receivable for this loan had been reduced to $0, net of allowance of $95,330 and $181,951 for doubtful principal balance and interest receivable, respectively, after charging $92,836 of bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, the principal balance and interest receivable for this loan had been reduced to RMB 0.6 Million (equivalent to $90,877) and $0, respectively, net of allowance of $173,452 for doubtful interest receivable. The interest rate for these loans initially was initially 8% per year, and subsequently reduced to 5% since October 9, 2006. RELIANCE ON SINGLE CUSTOMER We generated 92% of our revenue of tissue array from sales to a single customer in 2011. Should this customer face financial difficulty, refuse to pay our invoices as they become due or direct their business to a competitor, our business operations will suffer a material adverse effect. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS THROUGH INTERNAL GROWTH In order to fully implement our business plan, we may require additional financing. Financing may be in the form of traditional bank financing or through the sale of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure adequate bank financing or if available, will be on terms acceptable to the Company. If we attempt to sell shares of our common stock, existing shareholders will face dilution and likely a reduction in the price of our common stock. There are currently no financing arrangements in place. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY UNEXPECTED CHANGES IN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE. Development and distribution of our TMA's is subject to regulation both where we manufacture and sell the products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable governmental rules and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that changes in the regulatory environment will not make it difficult for us to comply or result in a substantial increase in our operating costs and a resulting decline in our margins. THERE IS UNCERTAINTY AS TO OUR ABILITY TO CONTROL COSTS AND EXPENSES. If our business grows, costs will increase. Management cannot accurately project or give any assurance, with respect to its ability to control development and operating costs and/or expenses in the future. Consequently, even if the Company is successful in expanding its operations (of which there can be no assurance), our management still may not be able to control costs and expenses adequately, and therefore such expansion may result in operating losses. COMPETITION Our market is highly competitive and some of our competitors may have greater resources than us. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to develop, promote and sell their services. If this should occur, revenues may decline and we will likely lose market share. IF WE DO NOT MANAGE OUR GROWTH, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY. We expect significant expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base, the breadth of our service offerings, and other opportunities. This expansion could strain our management, operations, systems and financial resources. To manage any future growth of our operations and personnel, we must improve and effectively utilize operational, management, marketing and financial systems and successfully recruit, hire, train and manage personnel and maintain close coordination among our technical, finance, marketing, sales and recruitment staffs. We also will need to manage an increasing number of complex relationships with customers, strategic partners, advertisers and other third parties. Our failure to manage growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenue we expect. 10 UNANTICIPATED OBSTACLES TO EXECUTION OF OUR BUSINESS PLAN. The Company's business plans may change significantly. Many of our potential business endeavors are capital intensive and may be subject to statutory or regulatory requirements. Management believes that our activities and strategies are achievable in light of current economic and legal conditions with the skills, background, and knowledge of the Company's principals and advisors. Management reserves the right to make significant modifications to the Company's stated strategies depending on future events. CERTAIN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS RELATING TO THE PRC COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. The government of the People's Republic of China has welcomed foreign investment and the expansion of business opportunities in the private sector. There can be no assurance that this policy will continue or alternatively, that this policy will not be modified to make it more restrictive to transfer funds from China to the United States or any other country. Moreover, political instability could adversely impact our ability to fully implement our business plan as political instability would likely lead to a downturn in the Chinese economy. CURRENCY EXCHANGE Changes in the exchange rate of the Chinese yuan renminbi (“CYN” or “RMB”) may adversely impact our profitability. If the CYN declines with respect to the U. S. dollar, our profitability will be adversely affected. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CAN BE COSTLY Medical advances are taking place at a rapid pace. In order to stay competitive, and bring state of the art TMAs to the market at competitive prices will require us to continue to devote significant resources to research and development. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash flow to make this commitment on a going forward basis. RELIANCE ON CURRENT MANAGEMENT We are reliant on our current management team, particularly Mr. Bai and Mr. Ren, to help us fully implement our business plan. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse impact on the implementation of our business plan and our future growth. We do not carry any type of key man insurance. Our business may experience periods of rapid growth that will place significant demands on its managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this possible growth, the Company must continue to improve and expand its management, operational and financial systems and controls. The Company will need to expand, train and manage its employee base. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to timely and effectively meet such demands. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ATTRACTING TALENT IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. Our research and development program requires us to recruit highly skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract these personnel for work either in the United States or China. If we cannot attract skilled personnel, our operations will likely suffer and any competitive edge that we have in the marketplace will quickly erode. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S RESIDENTIAL, CASINO & ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. THE ENTERTAINMENT AND LEISURE BUSINESS IS PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE TO REDUCTIONS IN DISCRETIONARY CONSUMER SPENDING AS A RESULT OF DOWNTURNS IN THE ECONOMY AND SALES OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSING ARE ALSO SENSITIVE TO DOWNTURNS IN THE REAL ESTATE INDUSTRY. Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts and for the type of luxury amenities we offer may be particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy. Demand for residential housing is also sensitive to downturns in the real estate market. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending brought about by factors such as fears of war, future acts of terrorism, general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy could reduce customer demand for the luxury products and leisure services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. 11 THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR PLANNED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR CASH FLOWS FROM THESE PLANNED FACILITIES. Our ongoing and future construction projects entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. In addition, the failure to sell our residential units as expected could adversely affect development of the casino and entertainment project as we are anticipating using the proceeds of such sales to help finance completion of the project. While we anticipate being able to obtain alternate financing, possibly from affiliated companies, there is no assurance such financing will be available. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to successfully manage our worldwide construction projects, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. THE LOSS OF OUR GAMING LICENSE OR OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE EXTENSIVE REGULATIONS THAT GOVERN OUR OPERATIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR CASH FLOWS. Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation by the Shandong Administration for Civil Affairs. They have broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise involved with us. These authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations. This would have a material adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO POTENTIAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND OUR ABILITY TO HAVE THOSE CONTROLS ATTESTED TO BY OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. We have established disclosure controls and procedures effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2011. Also projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree or compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. WE MAY BE AFFECTED BY GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE OR BY LEGAL, REGULATORY, OR MARKET RESPONSES TO SUCH CHANGE. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns. Changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions, could impact the availability or increase the cost of key raw materials that we use to produce our products. Additionally, the sale of our products can be impacted by weather conditions. 12 Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the territories that we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients, and water could all impact our business and financial results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK YANBIAO BAI CONTROLS THE OUTCOME OF MATTERS SUBMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS FOR APPROVAL. As of April 11, 2012, Mr. Bai owns approximately 65.6% of our outstanding common stock (including approximately 2.7% owned by his wife). As a result, he can control all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the appointment of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. THE COMPANY DOES NOT EXPECT TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have never paid cash dividends on its common stock and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to develop and expand its business. "PENNY STOCK" RULES MAY MAKE BUYING OR SELLING THE COMMON STOCK DIFFICULT AND SEVERELY LIMIT THEIR MARKET AND LIQUIDITY. Trading in the Company's common stock is subject to certain regulations adopted by the SEC commonly known as the "Penny Stock Rules". Our common stock qualifies as penny stock and is covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell our common stock in the market. The "Penny Stock" rules govern how broker/dealers can deal with their clients and "penny stock". For sales of our common stock, the broker/dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from clients a written agreement prior to making a sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker/dealers by the "penny stock" rules may discourage broker/dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit its market price and liquidity. This could prevent investors from reselling our common stock and may cause the price of the common stock to decline. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on other national exchanges, and our price may fluctuate dramatically in the future. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets. Our Common Stock was previously listed for trading on the Over-the-Counter Electronic Bulletin Board. The trading market in the common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for companies quoted on other national stock exchanges. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Due to limited trading volume, the market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company's performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 