RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following risk factors and any other information set forth in this Form 10-K and our other reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Company's financial statements and related notes, in evaluating the Company's business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that impact on the Company's operations and business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently considers immaterial, may also impair its business or operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial condition, results or prospects could be harmed. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMPANY'S PROSPECTIVE BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS The Company has a limited history with respect to the manufacture, sale and distribution of TMAs. Medical technology is constantly evolving and there can be no assurance that our TMAa will keep pace with medical breakthroughs. . The Company's ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow over time will be dependent upon, among other things, its ability to (i) continue to develop new TMA products and market these products both in China and other developing companies and (ii) its ability to evaluate the merits of pursuing the beauty supply business and its success in developing franchise opportunities despite no prior experience. OUR BUSINESS IS HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON THE ECONOMIC GROWTH OF CHINA At the current time, our business is heavily dependent on the economy and developing middle and upper class in China. Should the country suffer an economic downturn or should the government impose restrictions on the growth of private companies and the ability of a large consumer class to earn money in the private sector our business will suffer. To the extent that any of the foregoing should occur, our revenues will decline significantly. 4 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS THROUGH INTERNAL GROWTH In order to fully implement our business plan, we may require additional financing. Financing may be in the form of traditional bank financing or through the sale of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure adequate bank financing or if available, will be on terms acceptable to the Company. If we attempt to sell shares of our common stock, existing shareholders will face dilution and likely a reduction in the price of our common stock. There are currently no financing arrangements in place. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY UNEXPECTED CHANGES IN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE. Development and distribution of our TMA's is subject to regulation both where we manufacture and where we sell the products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable governmental rules and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that changes in the regulatory environment will not make it difficult for us to comply or result in a substantial increase in our operating costs and a resulting decline in our margins. THERE IS UNCERTAINTY AS TO OUR ABILITY TO CONTROL COSTS AND EXPENSES. If our business grows, costs will increase. Management cannot accurately project or give any assurance, with respect to its ability to control development and operating costs and/or expenses in the future. Consequently, even if the Company is successful in expanding its operations (of which there can be no assurance), our management still may not be able to control costs and expenses adequately, and therefore such expansion may result in operating losses. COMPETITION Our market is highly competitive and some of our competitors may have greater resources than us. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to develop, promote and sell their services. If this should occur, revenues may decline and we will likely lose market share. IF WE DO NOT MANAGE OUR GROWTH, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY. We expect significant expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base, the breadth of our service offerings, and other opportunities. This expansion could strain our management, operations, systems and financial resources. To manage any future growth of our operations and personnel, we must improve and effectively utilize operational, management, marketing and financial systems and successfully recruit, hire, train and manage personnel and maintain close coordination among our technical, finance, marketing, sales and recruitment staffs. We also will need to manage an increasing number of complex relationships with customers, strategic partners, advertisers and other third parties. Our failure to manage growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenue we expect. UNANTICPATED OBSTACLES TO EXECUTION OF OUR BUSINESS PLAN. The Company's business plans may change significantly. Many of the Company's potential business endeavors are capital intensive and may be subject to statutory or regulatory requirements. Management believes that the Company's chosen activities and strategies are achievable in light of current economic and legal conditions with the skills, background, and knowledge of the Company's principals and advisors. Management reserves the right to make significant modifications to the Company's stated strategies depending on future events. 5 CERTAIN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS RELATING TO THE PRC COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. The government of the People's Republic of China has welcomed foreign investment and the expansion of business opportunities in the private sector. There can be no assurance that this policy will continue or alternatively, that this policy will not be modified to make it more restrictive to transfer funds from China to the United States or any other country. Moreover, political instability could adversely impact our ability to fully implement our business plan as political instability would likely lead to a downturn in the Chinese economy. CURRENCY EXCHANGE Changes in the exchange rate of the Chinese yuan renminbi (CYN) may adversely impact our profitability. If the CYN declines with respect to the U. S. dollar, our profitability will be adversely affected. RESEARCAH AND DEVELOPMENT CAN BE COSTLY Medical advances are taking place at a rapid pace. In order to stay competitive, and bring state of the art TMAs to the market at competitive prices will require us to continue to devote significant resources to research and development. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash flow to make this commitment on a going forward basis. RELIANCE ON CURRENT MANAGEMENT We are reliant on our current management team to help us fully implement our business plan. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse impact on the implementation of our business plan and our future growth. We do not carry any type of key man insurance. During this past year, several of our directors resigned for personal reasons. These directors were not directly involved with our operations and their loss has not adversely impacted our operations. We have not yet filled these vacancies on our Board of Directors. The Company's business may experience periods of rapid growth that will place significant demands on its managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this possible growth, the Company must continue to improve and expand its management, operational and financial systems and controls. The Company will need to expand, train and manage its employee base. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to timely and effectively meet such demands. CONTROL BY PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS. Our management, either directly or indirectly own a majority of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, they will be able to elect members to our Board of Directors . This will enable current management to retain control regardless of their performance. In addition, minority shareholders will have little input into the direction of the Company. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ATTRACTING TALENT IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. Our research and development program requires us to recruit highly skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract these personnel for work either in the United States or China. If we cannot attract skilled personnel, our operations will likely suffer and any competitive edge that we have in the marketplace will quickly erode. 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS We have not voluntarily implemented various corporate governance measures in the absence of which, shareholders may have more limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. Recent Federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these measures have been adopted in response to legal requirements. Others have been adopted by companies in response to the requirements of national securities exchanges, such as the NYSE or The Nasdaq Stock Market, on which their securities are listed. Among the corporate governance measures that are required under the rules of national securities exchanges and Nasdaq are those that address board of directors' independence, audit committee oversight, and the adoption of a code of ethics. While our board of directors has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, we have not yet adopted any of these other corporate governance measures and, since our securities are not yet listed on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq, we are not required to do so. It is possible that if we were to adopt some or all of these corporate governance measures, shareholders would benefit from somewhat greater assurances that internal corporate decisions were being made by disinterested directors and that policies had been implemented to define responsible conduct. For example, in the absence of audit, nominating and compensation committees comprised of at least a majority of independent directors, decisions concerning matters such as compensation packages to our senior officers and recommendations for director nominees may be made by a majority of directors who have an interest in the outcome of the matters being decided. Prospective investors should bear in mind our current lack of corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX 404"), the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must also attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls. 7 While we expect to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by SOX 404, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. At present, there is no precedent available with which to measure compliance adequacy. Accordingly, there can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer. Risks Related to the Company's Common Stock The Company does not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock and has no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain earnings, if any, to develop and expand its business. "Penny stock" rules may make buying or selling the common stock difficult and severely limit their market and liquidity. Trading in the Company's common stock is subject to certain regulations adopted by the SEC commonly known as the "Penny Stock Rules". The Company's common stock qualifies as penny stock and is covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell the Company's common stock in the market. The "Penny Stock" rules govern how broker/dealers can deal with their clients and "penny stock". For sales of the Company's common stock, the broker/dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from clients a written agreement prior to making a sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker/dealers by the "penny stock" rules may discourage broker/dealers from effecting transactions in the Company's common stock, which could severely limit its market price and liquidity. This could prevent investors from reselling Echo common stock and may cause the price of the common stock to decline. Although publicly traded, the Company's common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on other national exchanges, and our price may fluctuate dramatically in the future. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets. Our Common Stock was previously listed for trading on the Over-the-Counter Electronic Bulletin Board. The trading market in the common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for companies quoted on other national stock exchanges. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Due to limited trading volume, the market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company's performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 8 