ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, together with all other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating the Company. Any of these potential risk factors, if actually realized, could result in a materially negative impact on the Company’s business and financial results. In such an event, the trading price of the Company’s stock could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Related to the Company The Company’s business depends on the success of its building performance efficiency offerings. If the Company fails to continue to grow revenues from these offerings, its prospects will be adversely affected. The Company’s strategic focus is on developing the BPE Segment. While the Real Estate Segment still contributes to the Company’s revenues and cash flows, it is not a primary element of the Company’s growth strategy. The Company intends to dedicate the substantial majority of its future capital resources and management attention to growing the BPE Segment. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within its control, including, but not limited to: • the ability of the BPE Segment to add new products and services on a timely basis, and the ability to keep its current products and services competitive; • the successful hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; • the establishment of new relationships and the expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; • the availability of adequate capital; and • the ability to make profitable business acquisitions and to integrate such acquired businesses into existing operations. To date, the BPE Segment has not contributed substantially to the Company’s net earnings. In fact, the BPE Segment has yet to achieve sustained profitability, although it did achieve higher revenues and modest profitability in the fourth (4th) quarter of the current fiscal year. Nevertheless, in light of the absence of a proven track record of sustained profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that its growth strategy will be successful. If the Company’s growth strategy were to be unsuccessful, its revenues, earnings, stock price, and the Company as a whole could be adversely affected. The Company may deplete its capital resources before the BPE Segment achieves sufficient positive cash flow to fund the Company’s operations, and may not be able to secure additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its businesses and grow the BPE Segment. The Company believes that it has, or can obtain, sufficient capital resources to operate its business in the ordinary course until the BPE Segment begins to generate sufficient cash flow from operations; however, this will depend substantially upon future operating performance (which may be affected by prevailing economic conditions) and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Failure to secure adequate resources for working capital and capital expenditures could materially impair the Company’s ability to continue to operate its businesses. The Company has historically generated substantial liquidity from the sale of real estate assets. As a result, the current real estate portfolio consists of a limited number of properties. In addition, given the recent decline in commercial real estate values in the United States, the Company may be unable to sell any of its real estate assets at acceptable prices in the near future. In June 2010, the Company sold its shopping center located in Jacksonville, Florida, and generated net cash proceeds of approximately $2 million from the transaction. In recent years, the Company has not utilized bank lines of credit for operating purposes, and does not have any such line of credit currently in place. During the fourth (4th) quarter of the current fiscal year, the Company has received loans of approximately $1,000,000 against certain life insurance policies; however, there remains no material further borrowing capacity under such policies as of April 30, 2010. In the event that currently available cash and cash generated from operations were not sufficient to meet future cash requirements, and the Company was unable to sell real estate or other assets at sufficient prices on a timely basis, the Company would need to attempt to: refinance existing debt; obtain new bank lines of credit; borrow against unsecured real estate assets; raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities; limit growth or curtail operations to levels consistent with the constraints imposed by the available cash and cash flow; or any combination of these options. Moreover, the Company’s ability to secure new debt or equity financing could be limited by economic and financial conditions at any time, but likely would be severely limited by credit, financial and real estate market conditions similar to those that have existed in recent years. Management cannot provide assurance that any reductions in planned expenditures or curtailment of operations would be sufficient to cover shortfalls in available cash, or that debt or equity financing or real estate or other asset sales would be available on terms acceptable to management, if at all, in which event the Company could deplete its 6 Table of Contents capital resources before achieving sufficient cash flows to fund operations, and might be obliged to explore strategic alternatives for its business. The Company has redeployed a substantial portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to grow the BPE Segment. The Company cannot guarantee that the return, if any, on investing these resources in the BPE Segment will exceed the return that might otherwise be achievable from the Real Estate Segment or from an investment in another line of business. The Company intends to continue to dedicate the substantial majority of its capital resources to growing the BPE Segment rather than the Real Estate Segment. Over the past several years, the Company has redeployed to the BPE Segment a substantial portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment, primarily through sales of income-producing properties. As noted above, the BPE Segment does not have a proven track record of sustained profitability, in contrast to the Real Estate Segment, which has been the primary source of the Company’s net earnings and cash flows in recent years. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that the return on its investment in the BPE Segment, if any, will compare favorably to the results that might be achievable otherwise if the Company had reinvested its capital resources in the Real Estate Segment or in another line of business. If the Company’s efforts to grow the BPE Segment do not prove to be successful, the investment of this capital could be partially or totally lost, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. Prevailing capital market and economic conditions could impact demand for the Company’s services and products. U.S. and international capital markets have experienced severe volatility, disruptions and failures in recent years, and the U.S. economy has only recently emerged from recession. The prevailing economic conditions could negatively affect the businesses of the Company’s customers and potential customers, and disruptions and failures in the capital markets could adversely affect their ability to raise capital, whether for normal working capital or for capital expenditures. Consequently, customers and potential customers who are capital-constrained, whether due to a weak economy or deteriorated market conditions, may delay or even cancel certain operating expenses and/or capital expenditures, including expenditures for the BPE Segment’s services and products. The Company in fact experienced delays during fiscal 2010 in certain anticipated orders for energy savings (lighting and mechanical) projects, which management believes was at least partly due to these factors. In recent years, the Company’s ability to generate net earnings has been significantly dependent on achieving capital gains from the sale of real estate income-producing properties. Without such gains recurring in the future, the Company might not be profitable. The Company’s ability to achieve net earnings in recent years has been significantly dependent on achieving capital gains from the sales of real estate income-producing properties. Although some of the proceeds of these sales of income-producing properties has been re-invested in new real estate properties, a significant portion of the proceeds from these sales has been invested in the BPE Segment, and a portion has also been distributed to shareholders as dividends. As a result, the Company has limited remaining real estate holdings, and consequently, real estate capital gains cannot be depended upon as a primary source for the Company’s long-term profitability. In addition, as a result of real estate dispositions, another source of historical earnings — rental income — has been negatively impacted. Accordingly, in order for the Company to maintain or improve its profitability in the future, the BPE Segment will need to be expanded sufficiently to produce consistent net earnings. There can be no guarantee, however, that the BPE Segment will be able to produce net earnings, if any, sufficient to match the contribution to the Company’s profitability that was generated by the Real Estate Segment in recent years, particularly in light of the BPE Segment’s lack of a consistent track record of sustained profitability. 7 Table of Contents The Company is dependent upon key personnel, and the loss of any such key personnel could adversely impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s growth strategy will require the addition of suitable personnel. One of the Company’s objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management team at all levels. At any given time, the Company could lose the services of key executives or other key employees, and the loss of services of any key personnel could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and management’s ability to execute its business strategy. If the Company were to lose a member of its senior management team, the Company might be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining a replacement for the departing executive. In addition, the growth of the BPE Segment will require the retention and addition of qualified personnel. Some offerings of the BPE Segment, such as energy engineering, energy-savings project design and implementation, and various IT-oriented products and services, may require personnel with special skills who are in high demand in the employment marketplace. The Company competes for such personnel with some companies with much greater resources. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to attract and hire such personnel or retain them in the face of better offers from competitors. If the Company cannot find suitable candidates for business acquisition or cannot integrate completed business acquisitions successfully, its prospects could be adversely affected. In addition to organic growth, the Company’s strategy includes growth through business acquisitions. The Company’s BPE Segment, to which the Company is dedicating most of its capital resources and attention, was established through several business acquisitions in recent years. The Company competes for acquisition opportunities with other companies that have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete an acquisition that it determines to be important to the growth strategy, because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company could obtain the requisite financing for such acquisition. Even if the Company completes a desirable business acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate any newly-acquired company into existing operations on a timely basis. Integration of a substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the integration process could result in the loss of the acquired company’s management or other key employees, the disruption of the acquired company’s business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the acquired company’s ability to maintain good relationships with its suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, successful integration of an acquired company requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organization, operation and systems of an acquired company in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. The Company is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and required public disclosure that have increased both the costs of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As a small public company, these costs of compliance may affect the Company disproportionately as compared with larger competitors. As a public company, the Company is subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. The Company’s efforts to comply with these regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “SOX,” have resulted and are expected to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from earnings-generating activities to compliance activities. The Company has complied with the SOX requirements involving the assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, which requirements went into effect for the Company for its fiscal year ending April 30, 2008. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s efforts to comply with the SOX requirements will continue to require the commitment of significant financial and management resources. In addition, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. If the Company fails to satisfactorily address and remain in compliance with all of these regulations and any subsequent revisions or additions, its business may be adversely impacted. Moreover, many of the compliance costs of SOX and similar rules and regulations are not in direct proportion to the size of a particular company. As a small public company, these costs might affect the Company disproportionately, particularly in comparison to its larger public competitors. The Company may also be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis public company compliance costs compared with its privately held competitors that are not subject to the same regulations. The Company’s earnings in a future period could be adversely affected by non-cash adjustments to goodwill and other intangible assets, if a future test of these assets were to indicate a material impairment. As prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), the Company undertakes an annual review of goodwill and other intangible assets balances. This test is performed during the third quarter of the fiscal year, unless there has been a triggering event that warrants an earlier interim testing for possible impairment. The Company’s recently completed annual test indicated that no impairment existed as of January 31, 2010. However, future impairment tests could yield different results, depending upon such factors as the actual performance of the BPE Segment against the assumptions used in the testing or changes in the BPE Segment’s industry. Consequently, future tests may result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, in which event the Company would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which such impairment were determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets at April 30, 2010, were approximately $9.2 million, or approximately 23% of the Company’s total assets, most of which was assigned to the BPE Segment. Risks Related to the Company’s BPE Segment The markets for the BPE Segment’s products, services and technology are very competitive, and are becoming more so; if the BPE Segment cannot successfully compete in those markets, the Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected. The markets for the BPE Segment’s energy savings products, services and technology are highly competitive and fragmented, and are subject to rapidly changing technology, emerging competing products and services, frequent performance improvements and evolving industry standards. The BPE Segment competes against not only smaller companies similar to itself, but also against solutions offered by traditional and competitive energy suppliers, public and investor-owned utilities, and energy services companies. The Company expects competition to increase in the future because of the growth potential of the BPE Segment’s markets. Competition could arise from both new businesses, as well as from the expansion by established enterprises into the BPE Segment’s markets. Increased competition may oblige the BPE Segment to reduce the price of its energy savings products and services, and the segment may experience reduced gross margins and slower growth — or even loss — of market share. Many of the BPE Segment’s existing competitors, as well as many potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than the Company does. This may enable these competitors to develop and implement new and better technologies more quickly than the BPE Segment can, and to adapt more rapidly to changes in customer requirements or preferences. Greater resources may also enable them to promote their products more effectively, or price them more attractively, than the BPE Segment can. Established larger enterprises may have existing customer, vendor and partner relationships that may give them a competitive advantage vis-à-vis the BPE Segment, and other competitors with greater resources may be more attractive to potential new customers, vendors, partners and employees than the BPE Segment may be to them. 9 Table of Contents Consequently, there can be no assurance that the BPE Segment will have the financial resources, technical expertise, portfolio of products and services or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profits. Failure to adequately expand the BPE Segment’s sales force may impede its growth. The BPE Segment is dependent on its direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to help manage its customer base. The Company operates in a very competitive marketplace for sales personnel with the advanced sales skills, technical knowledge, industry experience, and existing customer relationships that the Company needs. The BPE Segment’s ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s success in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining a sufficient number of such qualified sales personnel. New personnel require significant training. The Company’s recent hires and planned new hires might not prove to be as productive as the Company would like or expect, and the Company might be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where the Company conducts or desires to conduct its business. If the Company were unable to hire, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified and productive sales personnel, the revenues and profitability of the BPE Segment could be adversely impacted, and as a result, the Company’s growth could be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial position. As more of the BPE Segment’s sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, its sales cycle may become longer and more expensive, and it may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, all of which could harm the Company’s business. The BPE Segment is seeking to obtain additional larger enterprise customers. As the Company targets more of these customers, the Company anticipates potentially facing greater sales and marketing costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in closing some of its sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use the Company’s BPE products and services may be an enterprise-wide decision, and if so, these types of sales would require the Company to provide greater levels of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its building performance-enhancing products and services. In addition, larger customers may demand more customization, enhanced integration services, and additional product features and services. As a result of these factors, BPE sales opportunities may require the Company to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up the costs and the amount of time required to close sales, and diverting selling and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions. Because of these factors, the risk of not closing a sale with a larger enterprise customer may be greater than with smaller customers, and the results of such potential failure, due to higher costs and fewer overall ongoing sales initiatives, also can be greater. Moreover, the purchasing power of larger enterprise customers may result in lower profit margins on BPE revenues. A limited number of customers comprise a significant portion of the revenues and backlog of the BPE Segment. The loss of, or any significant decrease in, business from these customers could have an adverse effect on the BPE Segment’s results. A significant portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues for the year ended, and backlog as of, April 30, 2010, are derived from a relatively limited number of customers. In fiscal 2010, the BPE Segment generated approximately 28% of its total revenues from its largest customer, and the top five (5) customers accounted for approximately 53% of the segment’s total revenues. At April 30, 2010, approximately 55% of the segment’s backlog was due to one (1) customer, and the top five (5) customers accounted for approximately 83% of the total backlog. This customer concentration increases the risk of fluctuations in the BPE Segment’s revenues and operating results. If the BPE Segment loses a significant customer, or if revenues or orders from these significant customers decline, the segment’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one of these customers is lost, or if revenues or orders from one or more of these customers decline, there can be no assurance that the BPE Segment will be able to replace or supplement the lost customer(s) with others that generate comparable revenues or profits. 10 Table of Contents A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues are derived from fixed price contracts, which could result in losses on contracts. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues and current backlog is based on fixed price or fixed unit price contracts that involve risks relating to the Company’s potential responsibility for the increased costs of performance under such a contract. Generally, under fixed price or fixed unit price contracts, any increase in the Company’s cost not caused by a customer modification or other compensable change to the original contract, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, is absorbed by the Company. There are a number of other factors that could create differences in contract performance, as compared to the original contract price, including, among other things, differing facility conditions, insufficient availability of skilled labor in a particular geographic location, and insufficient availability of materials. The BPE Segment often utilizes subcontractors in performing services or completing projects, whose potential unavailability or unsatisfactory performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial position. The Company often utilizes unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in order to perform some of its energy engineering and consulting services, proprietary software and other IT development projects, much of its energy savings maintenance, installation and retrofit projects, and most of its other construction — related projects and services. As a consequence, the BPE Segment depends on the continuing availability of, and satisfactory performance by, such subcontractors. There may not be sufficient availability of such subcontractors at the times needed or in the markets in which the BPE Segment operates, or the quality of work by such subcontractors may prove to be below acceptable standards. In addition, the subcontractors may be unable to qualify for payment and performance bonds to ensure their performance or may be otherwise inadequately capitalized. Insurance protection available to subcontractors for construction defects, if any, is increasingly expensive and may become unavailable, and the scope of such protection may become greatly limited. If as a result of subcontractor problems or failures, the Company were unable to meet its contractual obligations to its customers or were unable to successfully recover sufficient indemnity from its subcontractors or their bond or insurance carriers, the Company could suffer losses which could decrease its profitability, damage its customer relations, significantly harm its reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business and financial position. The Company could be exposed to environmental liability related to the disposal of hazardous materials. A key offering of the Company’s BPE Segment is the replacement of existing lighting systems with newer, more energy efficient lighting systems in various types of facilities. The replacement of lighting systems can often involve the removal, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. As noted previously, various federal, state and local laws govern the handling of hazardous materials. Compliance with the various applicable environmental laws and regulations can be costly. If the Company were to fail to comply, it could face liability from government authorities or other third parties. Even in cases where the Company subcontracts the disposal of such materials, the Company could face potential liability. Not only could judgments, fines or similar penalties for environmental noncompliance negatively affect the Company’s financial position, the reputation of the BPE Segment and the Company as a whole could be harmed as well. If the BPE Segment’s security measures for its proprietary software solutions were breached, and as a result unauthorized access to a customer’s data were obtained, the offerings of the BPE Segment could be perceived as not being sufficiently secure, customers might curtail or stop using the BPE Segment’s products and services, and the BPE Segment could incur significant losses and liabilities. The BPE Segment’s proprietary software solutions involve the storage of customers’ data and information, whether locally on the customers’ own computers or on the Company’s computers in the case of the BPE Segment’s application service provider (“ASP”) offerings and one of its older legacy products. These products and services also involve the transmission of such data and information in the case of the ASP and the older legacy products. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of a partial or total loss of this data and information, potential litigation and possible liability. If security measures were breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data and information to data centers or at any time, and, as a result, 11 Table of Contents someone were to obtain unauthorized access to any customers’ data and information, the Company’s reputation might be damaged, its business might suffer, and it might incur significant losses and liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after being launched against a target, the BPE Segment might be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures on a timely basis. If an actual or perceived breach of security were to occur, the market perception of the effectiveness of the BPE Segment’s security measures could be harmed, the BPE Segment could lose sales and customers, and the Company’s business and financial potential could be harmed. The BPE Segment is dependent on the assistance of its customers to complete projects on a timely basis. If a customer were unable or unwilling to offer assistance, it could affect project timelines and reduce or slow the recognition of energy savings project revenues. Much of the work performed by the BPE Segment requires significant interaction with its customers. Therefore, the Company must have its customers’ full cooperation to complete projects on a timely basis. In the early stages of a project, the Company is at risk of customers not providing accurate or timely data for project implementation. Also, the Company must frequently access customer facilities, the restriction of which could delay or prevent the completion of projects. The BPE Segment’s new Fifth Fuel Managementtm product line is largely untested. If the Company fails to fully develop this product line, its prospects could be adversely affected. Moreover, the development of Fifth Fuel Managementtm will require additional capital, which the Company may not be able to obtain. The BPE Segment’s Fifth Fuel Managementtm product line is new, and its business viability is largely untested. The Company’s ability to develop Fifth Fuel Managementtm into a profitable product line will depend upon a variety of factors, some of which are not entirely within its control, including: • The Company’s ability to develop, acquire and/or license any additional technologies and processes necessary to fully develop and implement the Fifth Fuel Managementtm system; • The Company’s ability to market and sell this new offering to significant customers, such as public and investor-owned utilities and building owners and operators; and • The availability of adequate capital to fund the full development, marketing and working capital requirements of Fifth Fuel Managementtm. In the light of the relative newness of Fifth Fuel Managementtm, and the absence of a proven track record of profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that this new product line will be successful. In addition, the Company anticipates that the development of the Fifth Fuel Managementtm product line to meet expected demand will require additional capital, which the Company may seek to raise through outside sources or the sale of assets. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in raising adequate additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, depending on the form of such additional capital, the equity interests of the Company’s existing shareholders could be diluted. If the new Fifth Fuel Managementtm system ultimately were to be unsuccessful, the Company’s revenues, earnings, stock price, and the business as a whole could be adversely affected. The value to customers of the energy savings products and services offered by the Company’s BPE Segment is substantially impacted by the prevailing conditions of energy markets; if energy prices and utility costs were to decline, sales and profits of the BPE Segment’s energy savings products and service offerings might not grow, or could even decline. Many of the product and service offerings of the Company’s BPE Segment are energy efficiency savings products and services. The financial value to customers that install energy efficiency products and services is measured by energy and utility cost savings to be realized over time. Accordingly, the return on the customers’ investment for installing energy efficient products and services and the time period necessary for customers to recoup the initial 12 Table of Contents investment required for these products and services are directly correlated with the prevailing market prices for energy. If the price of energy and utility rates were to drop, customers’ energy savings and returns on investment from energy efficiency products and services would be less, and the time period over which the investment could be recovered through energy and utility costs savings would be extended. Consequently, if energy prices were to decline, demand for the BPE Segment’s energy efficiency products and services could decline as a result, as potential customers would be dissuaded from an upfront investment that may not produce as attractive of a return on investment for some time. A decline in energy prices could not only negatively affect the level of sales of energy savings products and services, but could also decrease the profitability of such products and services, as the BPE Segment might be obliged to lower prices in response to decrease demand. Risks Related to the Company’s Real Estate Segment The Company’s ownership of commercial real estate involves a number of risks, including but not limited to general economic and market risks, leasing risk, uninsured losses and condemnation costs, and environmental issues, the effects of which could adversely affect the Company’s real estate business and its financial position. The market for acquiring, managing, leasing and profitably disposing of commercial real estate is affected by general economic and market risks. The Company’s assets might not generate income sufficient to pay expenses, service debt, and adequately maintain its real estate properties. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of these assets. These factors include, among other things: • Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • Local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties; • The attractiveness of the properties to prospective tenants or acquirers; • Competition from other available properties; • Material contractual defaults by tenants; • Changes in market rental rates; and • The need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space. The performance of the Real Estate Segment also depends on the ability to collect rent and expense reimbursements from tenants, and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which costs could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors, tenant defaults, and competition cause a reduction in income from a property. If a property is mortgaged and the Company were to determine that it is unable to generate sufficient rental income to cover the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property, or the Company could deliver the deed to the property to the lender in lieu of foreclosure. In addition, capital market conditions, the availability and cost of financing, insurance costs, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning, environmental, and property taxes), other uncontrollable operating costs, and financial distress or bankruptcies of tenants could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and its overall business. Operating revenues in the Real Estate Segment are dependent upon the Company entering into multi-year leases with tenants and then collecting rental payments and expense reimbursements on a timely basis from such tenants over their respective lease terms. National, regional and local economic conditions might adversely impact the Company’s tenants and potential tenants in the various marketplaces in which its properties are located, and accordingly, could affect its tenants’ ability to continue to pay rents and expense reimbursements and to continue to operate in their leased spaces. Tenants sometimes experience bankruptcies, and pursuant to the various bankruptcy 13 Table of Contents laws, leases may be rejected and thereby terminated prematurely. When leases expire or are terminated, suitable replacement tenants may or may not be available at acceptable terms and conditions. The Company faces considerable competition in the leasing marketplace. Heightened competition resulting from adverse market conditions may require the utilization of rent concessions and tenant improvement allowances to a greater extent than in the past, and the costs to fund such concessions and allowances and other leasing costs could be significant. If the Company were unwilling or unable to expend the amounts of capital that might be necessary to retain existing tenants or to compete for available new tenants with properties owned by the Company’s competitors that have greater capital resources, or if the Company’s competitors offer to lease space at rental rates below current market rates or below the previous contractual rental rates of the Company’s existing leases, the Company could lose potential tenants to fill vacant spaces or could lose existing tenants upon expiration of their existing leases. As a result, the Company’s cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Company’s real estate properties could be subject to uninsured losses and condemnation costs. Accidents, floods and other losses at the Company’s real estate properties could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Casualties may occur that significantly damage an operating property, and insurance proceeds, if any, may be materially less than the total loss incurred by the Company. Property ownership also involves potential liability to third parties for matters such as personal injuries occurring on a property. The Company, however, maintains casualty and liability insurance under policies that management believes to be customary and appropriate. In addition to uninsured losses, various government authorities may condemn all or part of an income-producing property or parcel of undeveloped land. Such condemnations could adversely affect the future commercial viability of any such property. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect the Company. Environmental issues that could arise at the Real Estate Segment’s properties could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property. The property owner or operator might have to pay a governmental entity or third party for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination. These laws often impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator previously knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one party might have been responsible for the contamination, each party covered by the environmental laws might be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties might sue the owner or operator of a property for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that property. Although the Company currently is not aware of any environmental liabilities at its properties that it believes would have a material adverse effect on its business, assets, financial condition or results of operations, unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to sell income-producing properties on a timely basis could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s Real Estate Segment typically holds real estate assets until such time as it believes to be optimal to sell them. Normally, this will be during relatively strong real estate markets. However, the Company’s need to raise additional capital or other factors beyond the Company’s control could make it necessary for the Company to attempt to dispose of real estate properties during weak real estate markets. During a period when the market values of the Company’s real estate assets were to fall significantly, the Company could be required to sell real estate assets at a time when it may be inopportune to do so, or the Company’s assets could become subject to valuation impairment. Further, markets for real estate assets usually are not highly liquid, which can make it particularly difficult to realize acceptable selling prices on a timely basis when disposing of real estate assets during weak markets. 14 Table of Contents The Company might not be able to refinance its income-producing real estate properties on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. The Company may incur debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, or for other purposes. A property’s current leasing status, physical condition and net operating income; global, national, regional or local economic conditions; financial and credit market conditions; the level of liquidity available in real estate markets; the Company’s financial position; the terms and conditions or status of the Company’s other real estate or corporate loans; or other prior financial commitments could impair the Company’s ability to refinance real estate properties at the times when such refinancing might be necessary. Moreover, such refinancing might not be available upon acceptable terms, including in respect of loan principal amounts, interest rates, amortization schedules, guaranties or maturity terms. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 