ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, together with all other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating the Company. Any of the following potential risk factors, if actually realized, could result in a materially negative impact on the Company’s business and financial results. In such an event, the trading price of the Company’s stock could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Related to the Company The Company’s business depends on the success of its building performance efficiency offerings. If the Company fails to grow revenues from these offerings, its prospects will be adversely affected. In the past several years, the Company has undergone a fundamental change in its primary focus by transitioning from its former commercial construction business to its current position as a provider of building performance-enhancing services to building owners and operators, through the BPE Segment. While the Real Estate Segment still contributes to the Company’s revenues and cash flows, it is not a primary element of the Company’s growth strategy. The Company intends to dedicate most of its future capital resources and management attention to growing the BPE Segment. This BPE Segment differs in some substantial ways from the Company’s former commercial construction business and the Real Estate Segment. For instance, several important product and service offerings of the BPE Segment are information technology (“IT”) oriented, which represents a significant departure from the Company’s legacy businesses. The Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within its control, including, but not limited to: • the ability to add new products and services for the BPE Segment on a timely basis, and the ability to keep its current products and services competitive; • the successful hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; 5 Table of Contents • the establishment of new relationships and the expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; • the availability of adequate capital; and • the ability to make profitable business acquisitions and the ability to integrate such acquired businesses into existing operations. To date, the BPE Segment has not contributed substantially to the Company’s net earnings — in fact, it has yet to achieve sustained profitability. In light of the absence of a proven track record of sustained profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that its growth strategy will be successful. If the Company’s growth strategy were unsuccessful, its revenues, earnings, stock price, and the Company as a whole could be adversely affected. The Company may not be able to secure additional capital, if needed, on favorable terms, or at all, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its businesses and grow the BPE Segment. The Company anticipates that currently available cash and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet working capital requirements and anticipated capital expenditures for the foreseeable future; however, this will depend substantially upon future operating performance (which may be affected by prevailing economic conditions) and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Failure to secure adequate resources for working capital and capital expenditures could materially impair the Company’s ability to operate its businesses and grow the BPE Segment. The Company has historically generated substantial liquidity from the sale of real estate assets. As a result, the current real estate portfolio consists of a limited number of properties. In addition, given the recent decline in commercial real estate values in the United States, the Company may be unable to sell any of its real estate assets at acceptable prices in the near future. In recent years, the Company has not utilized bank lines of credit for operating purposes, and does not have any such line of credit currently in place. The Company does, however, have the current ability to receive loans of approximately $1,000,000 against certain life insurance policies, if needed. In the event that currently available cash, cash generated from operations, and loans from life insurance policies were not sufficient to meet future cash requirements, and the Company was unable to sell real estate assets at sufficient prices on a timely basis, the Company would need to attempt to: refinance existing debt; obtain new bank lines of credit; borrow against un-collateralized real estate assets; raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities; limit growth or curtail operations to levels consistent with the constraints imposed by the available cash and cash flow; or any combination of these options. Moreover, the Company’s ability to secure new debt or equity financing could be limited by economic and financial conditions at any time, but likely would be severely limited by credit, financial and real estate market conditions similar to those that have existed in recent fiscal quarters. Management cannot provide assurance that any reductions in planned expenditures or curtailment of operations would be sufficient to cover shortfalls in available cash, or that debt or equity financing or real estate asset sales would be available on terms acceptable to management, if at all. The Company has redeployed a substantial portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to grow the BPE Segment. The Company cannot guarantee that the return, if any, on investing these resources in the BPE Segment will exceed the return that might otherwise be achievable from the Real Estate Segment. The Company intends to continue to dedicate the majority of its capital resources to growing the BPE Segment rather than the Real Estate Segment. Over the past several years, the Company has redeployed a substantial portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to the BPE Segment primarily through sales of income-producing properties. As noted above, the BPE Segment does not have a proven track record of sustained profitability, in contrast to the Real Estate Segment, which historically has been profitable and has been the primary source of the Company’s net earnings and cash flows in recent years. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that the return on its investment in the BPE Segment, if any, will compare favorably to the results that might be achievable otherwise if 6 Table of Contents the Company had reinvested its capital resources entirely in the Real Estate Segment (or in any other line of business). If the Company’s efforts to grow the BPE Segment do not prove to be successful, the investment of this capital could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. Current market and economic conditions could impact demand for the Company’s services and products. U.S. and international capital markets have experienced severe volatility, disruptions and failures in recent months, and the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research has determined the U.S. economy has been in recession since December 2007. The recession could negatively affect the businesses of the Company’s customers and potential customers, and disruptions and failures in the capital markets could adversely affect their ability to raise capital, whether for normal working capital or for capital expenditures. Consequently, customers and potential customers who are capital-constrained, whether due to the recession or deteriorated market conditions, may delay or even cancel certain operating expenses and/or capital expenditures, including expenditures for the BPE Segment’s services and products. The Company experienced delays during fiscal 2009 in certain anticipated orders for energy savings (lighting and mechanical) projects, which management believes was at least partly due to these factors. In recent years, net earnings have been driven significantly by capital gains from the sale of real estate income-producing properties. Without such gains recurring in the future, the Company might not be profitable. The Company’s net earnings in certain recent years have been driven primarily by significant capital gains from sales of income-producing real estate properties. Although some of the proceeds of these sales have been re-invested in new real estate properties, a significant portion of the proceeds from sales of income-producing properties have been distributed to shareholders as dividends. As a result, in recent years the Company’s real estate dispositions have exceeded its acquisitions, and in light of the Company’s focus on growing the BPE Segment, the Company anticipates that this trend is likely to continue. Consequently, real estate capital gains cannot be depended upon as a primary source for the Company’s long-term profitability. Because of these factors, the Company’s net earnings in the future likely will not result primarily from real estate dispositions. In addition, to the extent that the proceeds from real estate dispositions are not redeployed in acquiring new income-producing real estate properties, another source of earnings — rental income — could be negatively impacted. Accordingly, in order for the Company to maintain or improve its net earnings in the future, the BPE Segment will need to be expanded to produce consistent net earnings. There can be no guarantee, however, that the BPE segment will be able to produce net earnings, if any, sufficient to match the contribution to the Company’s profitability that has resulted from the Real Estate Segment in the past several years, particularly in light of the BPE Segment’s lack of a consistent track record of sustained profitability. The Company is dependent upon key personnel and the loss of any such key personnel could adversely impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s growth strategy will require the addition of suitable personnel. One of the Company’s objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management team at all levels. At any given time, the Company could lose the services of key executives or other key employees. Currently, only one employee is subject to an employment agreement or contract. The loss of services of any key personnel could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and management’s ability to execute its business strategy. If the Company were to lose a member of its senior management team, the Company might be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining a replacement for the departing executive. In addition, the growth of the BPE Segment will require the addition of qualified personnel. Some offerings of the BPE Segment, such as energy engineering, sales and marketing, and various IT-oriented products and services, may require personnel with special skills who are in high demand in the employment marketplace. The Company competes for such personnel with some companies with much greater resources. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to attract and hire such personnel or retain them in the face of better offers from larger competitors. 7 Table of Contents If the Company cannot find suitable business acquisition candidates or integrate completed business acquisitions successfully, its prospects could be adversely affected. In addition to organic growth, the Company’s strategy includes growth through business acquisitions. The Company’s BPE Segment, to which the Company is dedicating most of its capital resources and attention, was established through several business acquisitions in recent years. The Company competes for acquisition opportunities with other companies that have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete an acquisition that it determines to be important to the growth strategy, because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company could obtain any requisite financing for such acquisition. Even if the Company completes a desirable business acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate on a timely basis any newly-acquired company into existing operations. Integration of a substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the integration process could result in the loss of the acquired company’s management or other key employees, the disruption of the acquired company’s business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the acquired company’s ability to maintain good relationships with its suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, successful integration of an acquired company requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organization, operation and systems of an acquired company in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. The Company is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and required public disclosure that have increased both the costs of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As a small public company, these costs of compliance may affect the Company disproportionately as compared with larger competitors. As a public company, the Company is subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. The Company’s efforts to comply with these new regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “SOX,” have resulted and are expected to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from earnings-generating activities to compliance activities. The Company has complied with the SOX requirements involving the assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, which requirements went into effect for the Company for its fiscal year ending April 30, 2008, and the remaining SOX requirements are expected to be put into effect for the Company in the fiscal year ending on April 30, 2010. The Company’s efforts to comply with the SOX requirements will continue to require the commitment of significant financial and management resources. In addition, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. If the Company fails to satisfactorily address and remain in compliance with all of these regulations and any subsequent revisions or additions, the business may be adversely impacted. Moreover, many of the compliance costs of SOX and similar rules and regulations are not in direct proportion to the size of a particular company. As a small public company, these costs might affect the Company disproportionately, particularly in comparison to its larger public competitors. The Company may also be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis public company compliance costs compared with its privately held competitors that are not subject to the same regulations. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company’s BPE Segment Failure to adequately expand the BPE Segment’s sales force may impede its growth. The BPE Segment is dependent on its direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage its customer base. The Company operates in a very competitive marketplace for sales personnel with the advanced sales skills, technical knowledge, industry experience, and existing customer relationships that the Company needs. The BPE Segment’s ability to achieve significant growth in revenues from BPE services in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s success in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining a sufficient number of such qualified sales personnel. New personnel require significant training. The Company’s recent hires and planned new hires might not prove to be as productive as the Company would like, and the Company might be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where the Company conducts or desires to conduct its business. If the Company were unable to hire, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified and productive sales personnel, the revenues and profitability of the BPE Segment could be adversely impacted, and as a result, the Company’s growth could be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. As more of the BPE Segment’s sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, its sales cycle may become longer and more expensive, it may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, and the Company may have to delay revenue recognition with respect to certain sales to these customers, all of which could harm the BPE Segment’s business. The BPE Segment is seeking to obtain additional larger enterprise customers. As the Company targets more of these customers, the Company anticipates potentially facing greater sales and marketing costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in closing some of its sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use the Company’s BPE products and services may be an enterprise-wide decision, and if so, these types of sales would require the Company to provide greater levels of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its building performance-enhancing products and services. In addition, larger customers may demand more customization, enhanced integration services, and additional product features and services. As a result of these factors, BPE sales opportunities may require the Company to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up the costs and the amount of time required to close sales, and diverting selling and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while at the same time requiring the Company to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. In addition, larger enterprise customers may seek volume discounts and price concessions that could make these transactions less profitable. Because of these factors, the risk of not closing a sale with a larger enterprise customer may be greater than with smaller customers, and the results of such potential failure, due to higher costs and fewer overall ongoing sales initiatives, also can be greater. Moreover, the bargaining power of larger enterprise customers may result in lower profit margins on BPE revenues. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues are derived from fixed price contracts, which could result in losses on contracts. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues and current backlog is based on fixed price or fixed unit price contracts that involve risks relating to the Company’s potential responsibility for the increased costs of performance under such a contract. Generally, under fixed price or fixed unit price contracts, any increase in the Company’s unit cost not caused by a modification or compensable change to the original contract, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, is absorbed by the Company. There are a number of other factors that could create differences in contract performance, as compared to the original contract price, including, among other things, differing facility conditions, insufficient availability of skilled labor in a particular geographic location, and insufficient availability of materials. 9 Table of Contents The BPE Segment often utilizes subcontractors in performing services or completing projects, whose potential unavailability or unsatisfactory performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company often utilizes unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in order to perform some of its energy engineering and consulting services, much of its energy savings maintenance, installation and retrofit projects, and most of its other construction — related projects and services. As a consequence, in order to offer these services, the BPE Segment depends on the continuing availability of, and satisfactory performance by, such subcontractors. There may not be sufficient availability of such subcontractors at the times needed or in the markets in which the BPE Segment operates, or the quality of work by such subcontractors may prove to be below acceptable standards. In addition, the subcontractors may be unable to qualify for payment and performance bonds to ensure their performance or may be otherwise inadequately capitalized. Insurance protection for construction defects, if any, available to subcontractors is increasingly expensive and may become unavailable, and the scope of such protection may become greatly limited. If as a result of such subcontractor problems or failures, the Company were unable to meet its contractual obligations to its customers or were unable to successfully recover sufficient indemnity from its subcontractors or their bond or insurance carriers, the Company could suffer losses which could decrease its profitability, damage its customer relations, significantly harm its reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company could be exposed to environmental liability related to the disposal of hazardous materials. A key offering of the Company’s BPE Segment is replacing older existing lighting systems with newer energy efficient lighting systems in various types of facilities. The removal of old lighting systems can often involve the removal, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. As noted previously, various federal, state and local laws govern the handling of hazardous materials. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. If the Company were to fail to comply, it could face liability from government authorities or other third parties. Even in cases where the Company subcontracts the disposal of such materials, the Company could face potential liability. Not only could judgments, fines or similar penalties for environmental noncompliance negatively affect the Company’s financial position, the reputation of the BPE Segment and the Company’s other businesses could be harmed as well. If the BPE Segment’s security measures for its proprietary software solutions were breached, and as a result unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, the offerings of the BPE Segment could be perceived as not being sufficiently secure, customers might curtail or stop using the BPE Segment’s products and services, and the BPE Segment could incur significant losses and liabilities. The BPE Segment’s proprietary software solutions involve the storage of customers’ data and information, whether locally on the customers’ own computers or on the Company’s computers in the case of the BPE Segment’s ASP offerings and one of its older legacy products. These products and services also involve the transmission of such data and information in the case of the ASP and the older legacy products. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss of this data and information, potential litigation and possible liability. If security measures were breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data and information to data centers or at any time, and, as a result, someone were to obtain unauthorized access to any customers’ data and information, the Company’s reputation might be damaged, its business might suffer, and it might incur significant losses and liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after being launched against a target, the BPE Segment might be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures on a timely basis. If an actual or perceived breach of security were to occur, the market perception of the effectiveness of the BPE Segment’s security measures could be harmed, and the BPE Segment could lose sales and customers. The BPE Segment is dependent on the assistance of its customers to complete projects on a timely basis. If a customer is unable or unwilling to offer assistance, it could affect project timelines and reduce or slow the recognition of energy savings revenues. Much of the work performed by the BPE Segment requires significant interaction with its customers. Therefore, the Company must have its customers’ full cooperation to complete projects on a timely basis. In the early stages of a project, the Company is at risk of customers not providing accurate or timely data for project implementation. Also, 10 Table of Contents the Company must frequently access customer facilities, the restriction of which could delay or prevent the completion of projects. Risks Related to the Company’s Real Estate Segment The Company’s ownership of commercial real estate involves a number of risks, including general economic and market risks, leasing risk, uninsured losses and condemnation costs, and environmental issues, the effects of which could adversely affect the Company’s real estate business and its financial position. The market for purchasing and leasing of commercial real estate is affected by general economic and market risks. The Company’s assets might not generate income sufficient to pay expenses, service debt, and adequately maintain its real estate properties. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of these assets. These factors include, among other things: • Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • Local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties; • The attractiveness of the properties to prospective tenants; • Competition from other available properties; • Material contractual defaults by tenants; • Changes in market rental rates; and • The need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space. The performance of the Real Estate Segment also depends on the ability to collect rent and expense reimbursements from tenants, and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which costs could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors, tenant defaults, and competition cause a reduction in income from a property. If a property is mortgaged and the Company is unable to generate sufficient rental income to cover the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property, or the Company could deliver the deed to the property to the lender in lieu of foreclosure. In addition, capital market conditions, the availability and cost of financing, insurance costs, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning, environmental, and property taxes), other uncontrollable operating costs, and financial distress or bankruptcies of tenants could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Operating revenues in the Real Estate Segment are dependent upon entering into multi-year leases with tenants and then collecting rents on a timely basis from such tenants. National, regional and local economic conditions might adversely impact tenants and potential tenants in the various marketplaces in which the Company’s properties are located, and accordingly, could affect the tenants’ ability to continue to pay rents and to continue to operate in their leased spaces. Tenants sometimes experience bankruptcies, and pursuant to the various bankruptcy laws, leases may be rejected and thereby terminated prematurely. When leases expire or are terminated, replacement tenants may or may not be available at acceptable terms and conditions. In addition, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted if existing leases were to expire or be terminated, and at such time, market rental rates were lower than the previous contractual rental rates. During the recent economic turmoil, the foregoing factors have negatively affected the Company. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company experienced an anchor tenant default at the Company’s Newnan, Georgia, owned office building. See “