ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating the Company. Any of the following potential risks, if actually realized, could result in a materially negative impact to the Company’s business and financial results. In such an event, the trading price of the stock could decline. The Company’s business depends on the success of its relatively new building performance, energy and facilities services offerings. If the Company fails to develop these lines of business, its prospects will be adversely affected. In the past several years, the Company has undergone a fundamental change in its primary focus by transitioning away from manufacturing and commercial construction to its current position as a provider of energy, infrastructure and facility services to commercial real estate owners and operators, through the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. While the Real Estate Segment is still an important contributor to the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flows, it is not a primary element of the Company’s growth strategy. The Company intends to dedicate most of its future capital resources and management attention to the development of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. These relatively new segments differ in some substantial ways from the Company’s now-discontinued manufacturing and commercial construction businesses and from the Company’s ongoing real estate business. For instance, several important offerings of the Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment are information technology (“IT”) oriented, which represents a departure from the Company’s legacy businesses. The Company’s ability to implement the growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within its control, including: • the ability to develop new products and services for the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments, and the ability to keep current products and services competitive; • the ability to make profitable acquisitions and the ability to integrate them into existing operations; • hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; • the establishment of new relationships or expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; and • the availability of capital. To date, these new segments have not contributed substantially to the company’s net earnings—in fact, the Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment has yet to achieve and sustain profitability. In the light of the relative newness of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments to the Company as an institution, and the absence of a proven track record of profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that its growth strategy will be successful. If the Company’s growth strategy were unsuccessful, its revenues, earnings, stock price, and the Company as a whole could be adversely affected. The Company is redeploying a portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to develop the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. The Company cannot guarantee that the return on investing these resources in the new segments, if any, will exceed the return that might otherwise be achievable from the Real Estate Segment. The Company intends to dedicate the majority of its future capital resources to the development of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments rather than to the Real Estate Segment, which the Company is not looking to as a principal source of growth. Over the past several years, the Company has redeployed capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment (primarily through the sale of commercial properties) to the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. As noted previously, the new segments do not have a proven track record of profitability, in contrast to the Real Estate Segment, which has historically been profitable and has been the primary source of net earnings to the Company in recent years. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that the return on its investment in the new segments, if any, will compare favorably to the results that might be achievable if the Company were to reinvest its capital resources entirely in the Real Estate Segment (or any other line of business). 4 Table of Contents PART I (continued) If the Company’s efforts to grow the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments fail, the investment of these resources could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. In recent years, net earnings have been driven significantly by gains from the sale of commercial properties. Without such gains, the Company might not be profitable in the future. The Company’s net earnings in recent years have been driven primarily by significant gains from sales of commercial properties. Although some of the proceeds of these sales have been invested in new properties, some of the net proceeds from these sales also have been redeployed to the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. Other proceeds have been distributed to shareholders as dividends. In recent years the Company’s real estate dispositions have exceeded its acquisitions, and in light of the Company’s focus on the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments, the Company anticipates that this trend is likely to continue. Consequently, real estate gains cannot be depended upon for the Company’s long-term profitability. Because of these factors, the Company’s net earnings in the future, unlike its net earnings over the past several years, will likely not result primarily from real estate dispositions. In addition, to the extent that the proceeds from real estate dispositions are not redeployed in acquiring new income producing properties, another source of earnings—rental income—will be negatively impacted. Accordingly, in order for the Company to maintain or improve its net earnings in the future, the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments will have to be expanded. There can be no guarantee, however, that these segments will be able to produce net earnings, if any, sufficient to match the contribution to the Company’s profitability that have resulted from the real estate gains in the past several years, particularly in light of the new segments’ lack of a consistent track record of sustained profitability. If the Company cannot find suitable acquisition candidates, or integrate completed acquisitions successfully, its prospects could be adversely affected. The Company’s strategy includes growth by acquisitions. The Company’s Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments, upon which the Company is dedicating most of its resources and attention, were both established by acquisitions within the past several years. The Company may compete for acquisition opportunities with other companies that have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete an acquisition that it believes could be important to its growth strategy, because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company is able to obtain financing. Even if the Company completes a desirable acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate on a timely basis the newly-acquired companies into existing operations. Integration of a substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the integration process could result in the loss of the management of the acquired company or other key employees, the disruption of the acquired company’s business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect its ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, successful integration of an acquired company requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organizations, operations and systems of acquired companies in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. The Company may not be able to raise the additional capital necessary to implement its growth strategy. In order to develop the new businesses, the Company anticipates having to continue to make expenditures in connection with the development of new products and services offered by the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments and in connection with the potential future acquisitions of other companies. Although the Company believes it has sufficient resources to finance these expenditures, at some point there may be a requirement to seek additional sources of financing. The Company cannot always predict the amount of its expenditures in connection with developing its new businesses, because opportunities for implementing it, particularly in the case of acquisitions, arise unexpectedly. If a future acquisition opportunity were to arise, the Company would be required to evaluate the sources of financing then available, which might be limited on short notice, and the terms of the financing available at the time. If the Company could not find financing on acceptable terms, it might be unable to make such acquisition. Moreover, the Company cannot guarantee that financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all, if such needs were to arise. 5 Table of Contents If the Company implements its growth strategy, but is unable to manage its growth, the Company’s sales and profitability might be adversely affected. The growth of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments might place additional demands on the Company’s administrative, operational and financial resources, and might increase the demands on the Company’s financial systems and controls. The Company’s ability to manage its growth successfully may require the Company to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If the Company were unable to efficiently manage its growth, the Company might not be able to produce optimal financial or operational results, even if the Company were successful in growing the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments. Difficulties that can arise when business growth outstrips the ability to manage the business include customer service or product delivery delays and resultant loss of customers, higher personnel turnover, the foregoing of business opportunities due to lack of resources, and other potential negative effects. Rapidly growing businesses frequently outpace a company’s ability to optimally manage such growth, due in large part to the reluctance to add the overhead costs of additional administrative personnel and resources before meaningful sales growth is achieved. The Company is dependent upon key personnel, the loss of any of whom could adversely impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, the development of the Company’s new businesses will require the addition of suitable personnel. One of the Company’s objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management group at all levels. At any given time, the Company could lose the services of key executives and other employees. None of the key executives or other key employees is currently subject to employment agreements or contracts. The loss of services of any key employees could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and management’s ability to execute its business strategy. If the Company were to lose a member of its senior management team, the Company might be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining a replacement for the departing executive. In addition, the growth of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments will require the addition of qualified personnel. Some of the offerings of these segments, such as energy engineering and the IT-oriented products and services, may require personnel with special skills who are in high demand in the marketplace for human resources. The Company competes for such personnel with some companies with much greater resources. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to attract and hire such personnel, or retain them in the face of better offers from larger competitors. The Company is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and required public disclosure that have increased both the costs of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As a smaller public company, these costs of compliance may affect the Company disproportionately as compared with larger competitors. As a public company, the Company is subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. The Company’s efforts to comply with these new regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or “SOX” may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. The Company is required to comply with the SOX requirements involving the assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, and the SOX requirement for the Company’s independent public accountants to audit that assessment is currently expected to be applicable to the Company for the fiscal year ending April 30, 2008. The efforts to comply with the SOX requirements will require the commitment of significant financial and personnel resources. In addition, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters, and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. If the Company fails to address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent changes, the business may be adversely impacted. Moreover, many of the costs of SOX and similar compliance are not in direct proportion to the size of a particular company. As a smaller public company, these costs might consequently affect the Company disproportionately, particularly in comparison to its larger public competitors. The Company may also be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis public company compliance costs compared with its privately held competitors, who are not subject to such regulations. 6 Table of Contents PART I (continued) RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S REAL ESTATE SEGMENT The Company’s ownership of commercial real estate involves a number of risks, including general economic and market risks, leasing risk, uninsured losses and condemnation costs, environmental issues, and concentration of real estate, the effects of which could adversely affect the Company’s business. General economic and market risks. The Company’s assets might not generate income sufficient to pay expenses, service debt and maintain its real estate properties. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the properties. These factors include, among other things: • Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • Local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties; • The attractiveness of the properties to tenants; • Competition from other available properties; • Changes in market rental rates; and • The need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space. The Company’s performance also depends on the ability to collect rent and expense reimbursements from tenants and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. If a property is mortgaged and the Company were unable to meet the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property. In addition, interest rate levels, the availability of financing, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning and taxes), and financial distress or bankruptcies of tenants could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Leasing risk. Operating revenues in the Real Estate Segment are dependent upon entering into leases with, and collecting rents from, tenants. National, regional and local economic conditions might adversely impact tenants and potential tenants in the various marketplaces in which the Company’s properties are located, and accordingly, could affect such tenants’ ability to continue to pay rents and possibly to continue to operate in their leased space. Tenants sometimes experience bankruptcies, and pursuant to the various bankruptcy laws, leases may be rejected and thereby terminated. When leases expire or are terminated, replacement tenants may or may not be available upon acceptable terms and conditions. In addition, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted if existing leases were to expire or were terminated, and at such time, market rental rates were lower than the previous contractual rental rates. Uninsured losses and condemnation costs. Accidents, flooding and other losses at the Company’s properties could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Casualties may occur that significantly damage an operating property, and insurance proceeds may be materially less than the total loss incurred by the Company. Property ownership also involves potential liability to third parties for such matters as personal injuries occurring on the property. The Company, however, maintains casualty and general liability insurance under policies that management believes to be customary and appropriate. In addition to uninsured losses, various government authorities may condemn all or parts of operating properties. Such condemnations could adversely affect the commercial viability of such properties. Environmental issues. Environmental issues that could arise at the Company’s properties could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property. The property owner or operator might have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator previously knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person might have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws might be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties might sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Currently, the Company is not aware of any environmental liabilities at its properties that it believes would have a material adverse effect on its business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Any failure to sell income-producing properties on a timely basis could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s Real Estate Segment typically holds real estate assets until such time as it believes to be optimal to sell them. Normally, this will be during relatively strong real estate markets. However, factors beyond the Company’s control could make it necessary for the Company to dispose of real estate properties during weak markets. Following a period when the market values of the Company’s assets had fallen significantly, the Company could be required to sell assets at a time when it may be inopportune to do so. Further, markets for real estate assets are not usually highly liquid, which can make it particularly difficult to realize acceptable prices when disposing of assets during weak markets. The Company might not be able to refinance its income-producing properties on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. The Company may incur debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes. A property’s current leasing status, physical condition or net operating income, global, national, regional or local economic conditions, financial market conditions and the level of capital available in real estate markets, the level of the Company’s total liabilities relative to its equity, the terms and conditions of or status of the Company’s other real estate or corporate loans, or other prior financial commitments could impair the Company’s ability to refinance real estate properties at the times when such refinancing might be necessary. Moreover, such refinancing might not be available upon acceptable terms, including with respect to interest rates or maturities. RISKS RELATED TO THE ENERGY AND FACILITIES SOLUTIONS AND ENERGY SERVICES SEGMENTS Failure to adequately expand the Company’s sales force may impede its growth. The Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments are dependent on its direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage its customer base. The Company believes that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge the Company needs. The Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments’ ability to achieve significant growth in revenue from building performance services in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel. New hires require significant training. The Company’s recent hires and planned hires might not turn out to be as productive as the Company would like, and the Company might be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where the Company conducts or desires to conduct business. If the Company were unable to hire and develop a sufficient number of productive sales personnel, sales of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments’ building performance services could be adversely impacted, and as a result, the Company’s growth could be impeded. As more of the Company’s sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, its sales cycle may become more time-consuming and expensive, the Company may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, and the Company may have to delay revenue recognition on these customers, all of which could harm the Company’s business. The Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments are concentrating more regularly on larger enterprise customers. As the Company targets more of these customers, the Company anticipates facing greater selling costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in completing some of its sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use the Company’s building performance products and services may be an enterprise-wide decision, and if so, these types of sales would require the Company to provide greater levels of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its building performance products and services. In addition, larger customers may demand more customization, integration services and features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require the Company to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up the costs and time required to complete sales and diverting selling and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while at the same time requiring the Company to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. In addition, larger enterprise customers may seek volume discounts and price concessions that could make these transactions less profitable. Because of these factors, the risk of not completing a sale to a larger enterprise customer can be greater than with smaller customers, and the results of such failure, due to higher costs and fewer overall ongoing sales initiatives, can be also be greater. Moreover, the bargaining power of larger enterprise customers may result in lower margins on completed sales. 8 Table of Contents PART I (continued) The value to customers of the various energy efficiency products and services offered by the Company’s Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment and Energy Services Segment is substantially impacted by the prevailing market prices of energy; if these prices were to decline, sales of the Company’s energy efficiency products and service offerings might not grow, or could even decline. Many of the product and service offerings of the Company’s Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment and Energy Services Segment are energy efficiency offerings. The financial value to customers for installing energy efficiency products and services is measured by the savings in energy costs to be realized over time. Accordingly, the return on the customers’ investment for installing energy efficient products and services and the time period necessary for customers to recoup the initial investment required for these products and services correlate directly with the prevailing market prices for energy. If the energy prices were to drop, the customers’ energy savings and returns on investment in energy efficiency products and services would be less, as the time period over which the investment could be recovered through savings on energy costs would be extended. If energy prices were to decline, demand for energy efficiency products and services could decline as a result, as potential customers are dissuaded from an upfront investment that may not produce as attractive a return for some time. Consequently, any decline in energy prices likely will translate into fewer sales for the Company’s energy efficiency offerings. The Company may be subject to potential liabilities as a result of construction or design defects, product liability, or warranty claims made. The Company’s Energy Services Segment, and engineering services offered by its Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment, involve construction and design services. The Company consequently may be subject to liability for construction or design defects, product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The costs of insurance offering protection against such claims, if such insurance coverage is available for purchase, may be prohibitive, and the amount and scope of such coverage offered by insurance companies, if any, may be limited. Uninsured judgments against the Company may negatively affect its financial position. Even if the Company prevails in defending construction and design defect claims against the Company, or if successful claims are covered by insurance, its reputation may be harmed. A portion of the Company’s revenues are derived from fixed price contracts, which could result in losses on contracts. A substantial portion of the Energy Services Segment’s revenues and current backlog is based on fixed price or fixed unit price contracts that involve risks relating to the Company’s potential responsibility for the increased costs of performance under such a contract. Generally, under fixed price or fixed unit price contracts, any increase in the Company’s unit cost not caused by a modification or compensable change to the original contract, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, is absorbed by the Company. There are a number of other factors that could create differences in contract performance, as compared to the original contract estimate, including, among other things, differing site conditions, availability of skilled labor in a particular geographic location, availability of materials and abnormal weather conditions. The Company is largely dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of its subcontractors, whose potential unavailability or unsatisfactory performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company often utilizes unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in order to perform some of its energy engineering and consulting services, much of its lighting and mechanical systems maintenance, installation and retrofit projects, and most of its other construction-related projects and services. As a consequence, the Company depends on the continuing availability of and satisfactory performance by such subcontractors. There may not be sufficient availability of such subcontractors in the markets in which the Company operates, or the quality of work by such subcontractors may prove to be below acceptable standards. In addition, the subcontractors may be unable to qualify for payment and performance bonds to insure their performance, or may be otherwise inadequately capitalized. Insurance coverage, if any, available to the subcontractors for construction defects is increasingly expensive and may become unavailable, and the scope of such coverage is or may become greatly restricted. If as a result of such subcontractor problems or failures, the Company were unable to meet its contractual obligations to its customers or were unable to successfully recover sufficient indemnity from its subcontractors or their bond or insurance carriers, the Company could suffer losses which could decrease its net income, damage its customer relations, significantly harm its reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company could be exposed to environmental liability related to the disposal of hazardous materials. A key service offering of the Company’s Energy Services Segment is replacing older existing lighting systems in commercial, industrial and other types of facilities with newer energy efficient lighting systems. The removal of old lighting systems can often involve the removal, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. As noted previously, 9 Table of Contents various federal, state and local laws govern the handling of hazardous materials. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. If the Company were to fail to comply, it could face liability from government authorities or other third parties. Even in cases where the Company subcontracts the disposal of such materials, the Company could face exposure. Not only could judgments, fines or similar penalties for environmental noncompliance negatively affect the Company’s financial position, the reputation of the Energy Services Segment, and the Company’s other businesses, could be harmed as well. If the Company’s new comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity management Application Software Provider (“ASP”) offerings are not widely accepted, the Company’s operating results could be harmed. The Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment derives a significant portion of its revenue from building performance software applications. The latest iterations of its building performance software are primarily ASP-based solutions, whereby the Company operates the software at its data center, and customers access their data and reports on the Web. This contrasts with previous versions of the Company’s work order management software, which typically were installed on customers’ own computers. Future sales in the Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment may be substantially dependent on this new product offering. Factors that might affect market acceptance of the Company’s ASP solution include: • reluctance by enterprises to migrate to an ASP product from more traditional products in which the software and related data is hosted and controlled locally by the customer; • the price and performance of the Company’s ASP offering; • the level of customization the Company can offer; • potential adverse publicity about the Company, its service or the viability, reliability or security of ASP products generally from third party reviews, industry analyst reports or adverse statements made by competitors. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. If the Company’s ASP offerings were to fail to achieve widespread market acceptance, the Company’s business could be harmed. Defects or disruptions in the Company’s comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity management software solutions could diminish demand for these offerings and could potentially subject the Company to substantial liability. Because the Company’s comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity management software solutions, including the new ASP offerings, are complex, and because the Company has incorporated into these offerings a variety of new computer hardware and software, both developed in-house and acquired/licensed from third party vendors, the offerings might have errors or defects that users could identify after they begin using these services, which could result in unanticipated downtime for the Company’s customers and harm to the Company’s reputation and business. The Company has from time to time found previously undetected defects in its software offerings, and new errors may be detected in existing offerings in the future. In addition, the Company’s customers may use the software solutions in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service or damage or loss of their data. With respect to the Company’s new ASP offerings in particular, misuse by customers might result in a loss of service for other customers attempting to access their data. The Company’s new ASP solutions are Internet-based, and Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Since the Company’s customers use the Company’s software solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service, data loss or other performance problems with the offerings could hurt the Company’s reputation and could damage its customers’ businesses. In such an event, customers could elect not to renew, or delay, or withhold payment to the Company, the Company could lose future sales or customers might make warranty claims against the Company, which could result in an increase in the provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or the expense and risk of litigation. If the Company were unable to develop enhancements and new features for the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments’ existing products and services, or were unable to develop acceptable new products and services that kept pace with technological developments, the Company’s business might be harmed. The reputations of the Company’s relatively new Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments depend significantly upon the Company maintaining a reputation for technological prowess. Consequently, the product and service offerings from these segments must continue be up-to-date technologically. The success of enhancements and new features to existing offerings, and of new products and services, such as the Company’s energy, infrastructure and productivity management ASP offerings, depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or edition. Failure in this regard may significantly impair revenue growth. 10 Table of Contents PART I (continued) In addition, because the ASP offerings are designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard browser, the Company will need to continuously modify and enhance these offerings to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. The Company might not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in timely bringing them to market. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase the Company’s research and development expenses. Any failure of any of the Company’s products and services to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for the Company’s products and services, and result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to the business. If the Company’s security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, the offerings of the Energy and Facilities Solutions and Energy Services Segments may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using the Company’s products and services, and the Company could incur significant liabilities. The Company’s energy, infrastructure and productivity management software offerings involve the storage of customers’ data and information, whether locally on the customers’ own computers, or on the Company’s computers in the case of the Company’s new ASP offerings and one of its older legacy products, and the transmission of such information in the case of the ASP and legacy products. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss of this data and information, litigation and possible liability. If security measures were breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data and information to data centers or at any time, and, as a result, someone were to obtain unauthorized access to any customers’ data and information, the Company’s reputation might be damaged, its business might suffer and it might incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company might be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of the security were to occur, the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures could be harmed and the Company could lose sales and customers. Any failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights could impair the Company’s ability to protect proprietary technology and its brand. If the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights adequately, particularly for the Company’s software products and services, competitors might gain access to the Company’s technology, and the Company’s business could be harmed. In addition, defending the Company’s intellectual property rights might entail significant expense. Any of the Company’s intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Currently, the Company has no issued patents and may be unable to obtain patent protection for its technology. In addition, if any patents were issued in the future, they might not provide the Company with any competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to the Company in every country in which its service is available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S., and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company might be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating its intellectual property. The Company might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect its intellectual property rights. The Company might initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of the Company’s proprietary rights or to establish the validity of the Company’s proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in the Company’s favor, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel. Because the Company recognizes revenue from its new ASP offerings over the term of customers’ subscription agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in the Company’s operating results. For the Company’s new ASP offerings, the Company generally recognizes revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 24 months, although terms can range from one to 60 months. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue the Company’s Energy and Facilities Solutions Segment reports in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter would not necessarily be fully reflected in 11 Table of Contents the revenue in that quarter, but could negatively affect revenue in future quarters. In addition, the Company might be unable to adjust its cost structure to reflect these reduced revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of the Company’s ASP offerings might not be fully reflected in the Company’s results of operations until future periods. The Company’s subscription model also makes it difficult to rapidly increase revenue simply because of additional sales of the Company’s ASP offerings in any period, as revenue from the ASP offerings from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Evolving regulation of the Internet may affect the Company adversely. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, the Company believes increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for ASP solutions in which data is processed by third parties, and restricting the Company’s ability to store, process and share data with its customers. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet, or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet, might also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm the Company’s ASP products and services. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 