ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating the Company. Any of the following potential risks, if actually realized, could result in a materially negative impact on the Company’s business and financial results. In such an event, the trading price of the Company’s stock could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to the Company The Company’s business depends on the success of its relatively new building performance energy, infrastructure, and productivity offerings. If the Company fails to grow these lines of business, its prospects could be adversely affected. In the past several years, the Company has undergone a fundamental change in its primary focus by transitioning away from manufacturing and commercial construction to its current position as a provider of energy, infrastructure and facility services to commercial real estate owners and operators, through the BPE Segment. While the Real Estate Segment is still an important contributor to the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash 5 Table of Contents flows, it is not the primary element of the Company’s growth strategy. The Company intends to dedicate most of its future capital resources and management attention to growing the BPE Segment. This BPE Segment differs in some substantial ways from the Company’s now-discontinued manufacturing and commercial construction businesses, and from the ongoing business of the Real Estate Segment. For instance, several important offerings of the BPE Segment are information technology (“IT”) oriented, which represents a departure from the Company’s legacy businesses. The Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within its control, including: • the ability to add new products and services for the BPE Segment, and the ability to keep current products and services competitive; • the ability to make profitable business acquisitions and the ability to integrate such acquired businesses into existing operations; • the hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; • the establishment of new relationships or expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; and • the availability of capital. To date, the BPE Segment has not contributed substantially to the Company’s net earnings—in fact, it has yet to achieve sustained profitability. In the light of the relative newness of this segment to the Company, and the absence of a proven track record of sustained profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that its growth strategy will be successful. If the Company’s growth strategy were unsuccessful, its revenues, earnings, stock price, and the Company as a whole could be adversely affected. The Company is redeploying a portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to grow the BPE Segment. The Company cannot guarantee that the return on investing these resources in the new segment, if any, will exceed the return that might otherwise be achievable from the Real Estate Segment. The Company intends to dedicate the majority of its capital resources to growing the BPE Segment rather than the Real Estate Segment. Over the past several years, the Company has redeployed some of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment (primarily through the sale of commercial properties) to the BPE Segment. As noted above, the BPE segment does not have a proven track record of sustained profitability, in contrast to the Real Estate Segment, which has historically been consistently profitable, and has been the primary source of the Company’s net earnings in recent years. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that the return on its investment in the BPE Segment, if any, will compare favorably to the results that might be achievable otherwise, if the Company were to reinvest its capital resources entirely in the Real Estate Segment (or any other line of business). If the Company’s efforts to grow the BPE Segment do not prove to be successful, the investment of this capital could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. In recent years, net earnings have been driven significantly by capital gains from the sale of real estate investment properties. Without such gains recurring in the future, the Company might not be profitable. The Company’s net earnings in recent years have been driven primarily by significant capital gains from sales of commercial real estate properties. Although some of the proceeds of these sales have been re-invested in new properties, a significant portion of the proceeds from these sales has been redeployed to growing the BPE Segment. Other proceeds from these sales have been distributed to shareholders as dividends. As a result, in recent years the Company’s real estate dispositions have exceeded its acquisitions, and in light of the Company’s focus on growing the BPE Segment, the Company anticipates that this trend is likely to continue. Consequently, real estate capital gains cannot be depended upon as a primary source for the Company’s long-term profitability. Because of these factors, the Company’s net earnings in the future, unlike its net earnings over the past several years, likely will not result primarily from real estate dispositions. In addition, to the extent that the proceeds from real estate dispositions are not redeployed in acquiring new income-producing real estate properties, another 6 Table of Contents source of earnings—rental income—could be negatively impacted. Accordingly, in order for the Company to maintain or improve its net earnings in the future, the BPE Segment will need to be expanded to produce consistent net earnings. There can be no guarantee, however, that the BPE segment will be able to produce net earnings, if any, sufficient to match the contribution to the Company’s profitability that have resulted from the Real Estate Segment in the past several years, particularly in light of BPE Segment’s lack of a consistent track record of sustained profitability. If the Company cannot find suitable business acquisition candidates, or integrate completed business acquisitions successfully, its prospects could be adversely affected. In addition to organic growth, the Company’s strategy includes growth through business acquisitions. The Company’s BPE Segment, to which the Company is dedicating most of its capital resources and attention, was established through several business acquisitions during the past several years. The Company may compete for acquisition opportunities with other companies that have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete an acquisition that it determines to be important to the growth strategy, because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company could obtain any requisite financing for such acquisition. Even if the Company completes a desirable business acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate on a timely basis any newly-acquired company into existing operations. Integration of a substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the integration process could result in the loss of the acquired company’s management or other key employees, the disruption of the acquired company’s business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the acquired company’s ability to maintain good relationships with suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, successful integration of an acquired company requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organization, operation and systems of the acquired company in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. The Company may not be able to raise the additional capital necessary to implement its growth strategy. In order to grow the BPE Segment, the Company anticipates having to continue to make expenditures in connection with adding new products and services offered by the BPE Segment and in connection with the potential future acquisitions of other companies. Although the Company believes it has sufficient resources to finance these expenditures, at some point there may be a requirement to seek additional sources of capital. The Company cannot always predict the amount of its expenditures in connection with growing its business, because opportunities for implementing it, particularly in the case of acquisitions, may arise unexpectedly. If a future acquisition opportunity were to arise, the Company would be required to evaluate the sources of financing then available, which might be limited on short notice, and the terms of any such financing available at the time. If the Company could not secure financing on acceptable terms, it might be unable to make such acquisition. Moreover, the Company cannot guarantee that financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all, at the times such needs were to arise. If the Company successfully implements its growth strategy, but is unable to effectively manage its growth, the Company’s revenues and profitability might be adversely affected. The growth of the BPE Segment might place additional demands on the Company’s administrative, operational and financial resources, and might increase the demands on the Company’s financial systems and controls. The Company’s ability to manage its growth successfully may require the Company to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If the Company were unable to efficiently manage its growth, the Company might not be able to produce optimal financial or operational results, even if the Company were successful in growing the BPE Segment. Difficulties that can arise when business growth outstrips the ability to manage the business include customer service or product delivery delays and the resulting loss of customers, higher personnel turnover, the foregoing of potential new business opportunities due to lack of available resources, and other potential negative effects. Rapidly growing businesses frequently outpace a company’s 7 Table of Contents ability to optimally manage such growth, due in large part to the reluctance to add the overhead costs of additional administrative personnel and resources before meaningful sales growth is achieved. The Company is dependent upon key personnel and the loss of any such key personnel could adversely impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s growth strategy will require the addition of suitable personnel. One of the Company’s objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management team at all levels. At any given time, the Company could lose the services of key executives or other key employees. None of the key executives or other key employees is currently subject to employment agreements or contracts. The loss of services of any key personnel could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and management’s ability to execute its business strategy. If the Company were to lose a member of its senior management team, the Company might be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining a replacement for the departing executive. In addition, the growth of the BPE Segment will require the addition of qualified personnel. Some of the offerings of this segment, such as energy engineering and the IT-oriented products and services, may require personnel with special skills who are in high demand in the employment marketplace. The Company competes for such personnel with some companies with much greater resources. Accordingly, the Company may not be able attract and hire such personnel, or retain them in the face of better offers from larger competitors. The Company is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and required public disclosure that have increased both the costs of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As a small public company, these costs of compliance may affect the Company disproportionately as compared with larger competitors. As a public company, the Company is subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ, and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. The Company’s efforts to comply with these new regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “SOX,” may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from earnings-generating activities to compliance activities. The Company is preparing to comply with the SOX requirements involving the assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, which requirements are currently expected to go into effect for the Company in two phases over its fiscal years ending April 30, 2008, and April 30, 2009. The efforts to comply with the SOX requirements will require the commitment of significant financial and management resources. In addition, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters, and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. If the Company fails to satisfactorily address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent revisions or additions, the business may be adversely impacted. Moreover, many of the compliance costs of SOX and similar rules and regulations are not in direct proportion to the size of a particular company. As a small public company, these costs might affect the Company disproportionately, particularly in comparison to its larger public competitors. The Company may also be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis public company compliance costs compared with its privately held competitors, who are not subject to the same regulations. Risks Related to the Company’s BPE Segment Failure to adequately expand the BPE Segment’s sales force may impede its growth. The BPE Segment is dependent on its direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage its customer base. The Company competes in a very competitive marketplace for sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge the Company needs. The BPE Segment’s ability to achieve significant growth in revenue from BPE services in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s success in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel. New personnel requires significant training. The Company’s recent hires and planned new hires 8 Table of Contents might not turn out to be as productive as the Company would like, and the Company might be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where the Company conducts or desires to conduct its business. If the Company were unable to hire and develop a sufficient number of qualified and productive sales personnel, sales of the BPE Segment could be adversely impacted, and as a result, the Company’s growth could be impeded. As more of the BPE Segment’s sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, its sales cycle may become longer and more expensive, it may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, and the Company may have to delay revenue recognition with respect to certain sales to these customers, all of which could harm the BPE Segment’s business. The BPE Segment is concentrating on obtaining larger enterprise customers. As the Company targets more of these customers, the Company anticipates potentially facing greater selling costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in closing some of its sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use the Company’s BPE products and services may be an enterprise-wide decision, and if so, these types of sales would require the Company to provide greater levels of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its building performance products and services. In addition, larger customers may demand more customization, enhanced integration services and additional product features and services. As a result of these factors, BPE sales opportunities may require the Company to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up the costs and time required to close sales, and diverting selling and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while at the same time requiring the Company to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. In addition, larger enterprise customers may seek volume discounts and price concessions that could make these transactions less profitable. Because of these factors, the risk of not closing a sale with a larger enterprise customer may be greater than with smaller customers, and the results of such potential failure, due to higher costs and fewer overall ongoing sales initiatives, can be also be greater. Moreover, the bargaining power of larger enterprise customers may result in lower profit margins on BPE revenues. A significant portion of BPE energy savings contract revenues come from energy service companies (“ESCOs”). If the ESCOs were to reduce or eliminate future contract awards, the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company’s BPE Segment obtains a significant portion of its energy savings contract revenues from large ESCOs. If the Company were to obtain fewer such contracts, or if such contracts were completely curtailed, BPE revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the ESCOs, with whom the Company has built long-term relationships, might not be awarded future government and private sector contracts. Also, ESCOs are subject to audits and investigations by the government, the results of which could impact the ESCOs’ ability to obtain future contracts. Reductions in the number of ESCO contracts available for the Company to compete for could also adversely affect the BPE Segment’s earnings. The value to customers of the various energy savings products and services offered by the Company’s BPE Segment is substantially impacted by the prevailing conditions of energy markets; if energy prices and utility costs were to decline, sales of the BPE Segment’s energy savings products and service offerings might not grow, or could even decline. Many of the product and service offerings of the Company’s BPE Segment are energy efficiency savings products and services. The financial value to customers that install energy efficiency products and services is measured by energy and utility cost savings to be realized over time. Accordingly, the return on the customers’ investment for installing energy efficient products and services and the time period necessary for customers to recoup the initial investment required for these products and services are directly correlated with the prevailing market prices for energy. If the price of energy and utility rates were to drop, the customers’ energy savings and returns on investment from energy efficiency products and services would be less, and the time period over which the investment could be recovered through energy and utility costs savings would be extended. If energy prices were to decline, demand for energy efficiency products and services could decline as a result, as potential customers are dissuaded from an upfront investment that may not produce as attractive of a return on investment for some time. Consequently, a significant or sustained decline in energy prices may translate into fewer sales for the Company’s BPE energy offerings. 9 Table of Contents The BPE Segment may be subject to potential liabilities as a result of construction or design defects, product liability, or warranty claims made. The BPE Segment offers some construction and design services. The Company, consequently, may be subject to liability for construction or design defects, product liability, and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The costs of insurance offering protection against such claims, if such insurance coverage is available to the Company for purchase, may be prohibitive, and the amount and scope of such coverage offered by insurance companies, if any, may be limited. Uninsured judgments against the Company may negatively affect its financial position. Even if the Company prevails in defending against construction and design defect claims, or if successful claims are covered by insurance, the Company’s reputation may be harmed. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues are derived from fixed price contracts, which could result in losses on contracts. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues and current backlog is based on fixed price or fixed unit price contracts that involve risks relating to the Company’s potential responsibility for the increased costs of performance under such a contract. Generally, under fixed price or fixed unit price contracts, any increase in the Company’s unit cost not caused by a modification or compensable change to the original contract, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, is absorbed by the Company. There are a number of other factors that could create differences in contract performance, as compared to the original contract estimate, including, among other things, differing facility conditions, availability of skilled labor in a particular geographic location, availability of materials, and abnormal weather conditions. The BPE Segment often utilizes subcontractors in performing services or completing projects, whose potential unavailability or unsatisfactory performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company often utilizes unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in order to perform some of its energy engineering and consulting services, much of its energy savings maintenance, installation and retrofit projects, and most of its other construction—related projects and services. As a consequence, in order to offer these services, the BPE Segment depends on the continuing availability of, and satisfactory performance by, such subcontractors. There may not be sufficient availability of such subcontractors at the times needed or in the markets in which the BPE Segment operates, or the quality of work by such subcontractors may prove to be below acceptable standards. In addition, the subcontractors may be unable to qualify for payment and performance bonds to insure their performance or may be otherwise inadequately capitalized. Insurance protection for construction defects, if any, available to subcontractors is increasingly expensive and may become unavailable, and the scope of such protection may become greatly limited. If as a result of such subcontractor problems or failures, the Company were unable to meet its contractual obligations to its customers or were unable to successfully recover sufficient indemnity from its subcontractors or their bond or insurance carriers, the Company could suffer losses which could decrease its net income, damage its customer relations, significantly harm its reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company could be exposed to environmental liability related to the disposal of hazardous materials. A key offering of the Company’s BPE Segment is replacing older existing lighting systems in commercial, industrial and other types of facilities with newer energy efficient lighting systems. The removal of old lighting systems can often involve the removal, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. As noted previously, various federal, state and local laws govern the handling of hazardous materials. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. If the Company were to fail to comply, it could face liability from government authorities or other third parties. Even in cases where the Company subcontracts the disposal of such materials, the Company could face potential liability. Not only could judgments, fines or similar penalties for environmental noncompliance negatively affect the Company’s financial position, the reputation of the BPE Segment and the Company’s other businesses could be harmed as well. If the BPE Segment’s comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity Application Software Provider (“ASP”) offerings are not widely accepted, the Company’s operating results could be harmed. The BPE Segment derives a significant portion of its recurring revenue from proprietary building performance software system sales. The latest iterations of its building performance software are primarily ASP-based solutions, whereby the BPE Segment operates the software systems at its data center, and customers access their data and reports on the Internet. This contrasts with previous versions of the BPE Segment’s preventative 10 Table of Contents maintenance work order management software systems, which typically were installed on customers’ computers. Future recurring revenues in the BPE Segment may be substantially dependent on continued customer demand for these ASP-based solutions. Factors that might affect customer acceptance of the BPE Segment’s ASP solutions include: • reluctance by enterprises to migrate to an ASP system from more traditional systems in which the software and related data is hosted and controlled locally by the customer; • the price and performance of the Company’s ASP offerings; • the level of customization the BPE Segment is able or willing to offer; • potential adverse publicity about the Company, its services, or the viability, reliability or security of ASP systems generally from third party reviews, industry analyst reports, or disparaging statements made by competitors. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. If the BPE Segment’s ASP offerings were to fail to achieve widespread customer acceptance, the Company’s business could be harmed. Defects or disruptions in the BPE Segment’s comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity ASP offerings or its other software offerings could diminish demand for these products and services and could potentially subject the Company to substantial liability. Because the BPE Segment’s comprehensive energy, infrastructure and productivity software offering, including the ASP offerings, are technologically complex, and because the BPE Segment has incorporated into these offerings a variety of new computer hardware and software, both developed in-house and acquired/licensed from third-party vendors, the offerings might have errors or defects, of which the Company is unaware, which users could identify only after they begin using these products and services. Any such errors or defects could result in unanticipated downtime for the BPE Segment’s customers and harm to the Company’s reputation and business. The BPE Segment from time to time has found previously undetected defects in its software offerings, and new errors could be detected in its existing offerings sometime in the future. In addition, the BPE Segment’s customers may use its software products and services in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service, or damage or loss of the customers’ data. With respect to the Company’s ASP offerings in particular, misuse by customers might result in a loss of service for other customers attempting to access their data. The Company’s ASP solutions are Internet-based, and Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are first released. Since the BPE Segment’s customers use its software products and services in important aspects of their businesses, any errors, defects, disruptions in service, data loss, or other performance problems related to the Company’s software products and services, could hurt the BPE Segment’s reputation and could damage its customers’ businesses. In such an event, if customers elect not to renew contracts, or delay or withhold payment to the Company, the Company could lose future potential sales or customers might make warranty claims against the Company, any of which could result in lower recurring revenues, lower backlog, an increase in the provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or the expense and risk of potential litigation. If the BPE Segment were unable to add enhancements and new features to its existing products and services, or were unable to add acceptable new products and services that kept pace with competitive or technological developments, the Company’s business might be harmed. The reputation of the Company’s relatively new BPE Segment depends significantly upon the BPE Segment maintaining a reputation for technological prowess. Consequently, the product and service offerings from this segment must continue to be up-to-date technologically. The success of enhancements and new features added to existing offerings, and the success of new products and services, such as the BPE Segment’s energy, infrastructure and productivity ASP offerings, depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of the enhancements, new features, or new products and services. Failure in this regard may significantly impair revenue growth of the BPE Segment. 11 Table of Contents In addition, because the ASP offerings are designed to operate on a variety of computer network hardware and software platforms using a standard Internet Web browser, the BPE Segment may need to regularly modify and enhance its offerings to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, Web browser and database technologies. The BPE Segment might not be successful in either adding such modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market on a timely basis. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new computer network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase the Company’s research and development expenses. Any failure of any of the BPE Segment’s products and services to operate effectively with future computer network platforms and technologies could lessen the demand for the BPE Segment’s products and services, and result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to the BPE Segment’s business. If the BPE Segment’s security measures were breached, and as a result unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, the offerings of the BPE Segment could be perceived as not being sufficiently secure, customers might curtail or stop using the BPE Segment’s products and services, and the BPE Segment could incur significant losses and liabilities. The BPE Segment’s energy, infrastructure and productivity software products and services involve the storage of customers’ data and information, whether locally on the customers’ own computers, or on the Company’s computers in the case of the BPE Segment’s new ASP offerings and one of its older legacy products, and the transmission of such data and information in the case of the ASP and the older legacy products. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss of this data and information, potential litigation and possible liability. If security measures were breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data and information to data centers or at any time, and, as a result, someone were to obtain unauthorized access to any customers’ data and information, the Company’s reputation might be damaged, its business might suffer, and it might incur significant losses and liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the BPE Segment might be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of the security were to occur, the market perception of the effectiveness of the BPE Segment’s security measures could be harmed and the BPE Segment could lose sales and customers. Any failure to adequately protect the Company’s intellectual property rights could impair the Company’s ability to protect its proprietary technology and its brand. If the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights adequately, particularly for the Company’s software products and services, competitors might gain access to the Company’s technology, and the Company’s business could be harmed. In addition, defending the Company’s intellectual property rights might entail significant expense. Any of the Company’s intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Currently, the Company has no issued patents and may be unable to obtain patent protection for its technology. In addition, if any patents were issued in the future, they might not provide the Company with any competitive advantages, or subsequently may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to the Company in every country in which its service is available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S., and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company might be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating its intellectual property. The Company might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect its intellectual property rights. The Company might initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of the Company’s proprietary rights or to establish the validity of the Company’s proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in the Company’s favor, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel. 12 Table of Contents Because the BPE Segment recognizes revenue from its ASP offerings over the term of customers’ subscription agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be reflected immediately in the BPE Segment’s operating results. For its ASP offerings, the BPE Segment generally recognizes revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 24 months, although terms can range from one to 60 months. As a result, a portion of the revenue that the Company’s BPE Segment reports in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter would not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue of that quarter, but could negatively affect revenue in future quarters. In addition, the BPE Segment might be unable to adjust its cost structure to reflect such reduced revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of the BPE Segment’s ASP offerings might not be fully reflected in the BPE Segment’s results of operations until future periods. The Segment’s subscription model also makes it difficult to rapidly increase revenue simply because of additional sales of its ASP offerings in any period, as revenue from the ASP offerings from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Evolving regulation of the Internet may affect the Company adversely. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, the Company believes increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for ASP solutions in which data is processed by third parties, and restricting the Company’s ability to store, process and share data with its customers. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet, or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet, might also be imposed. Any regulation imposing fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm the Company’s ASP products and services. The BPE Segment is dependent on the assistance of its customers to complete projects on a timely basis. If the customer is unable or unwilling to offer assistance, it could affect project timelines and reduce or slow the collection of energy saving revenues. Much of the work performed by the BPE Segment requires significant interaction with its customers. Therefore, the Company must have its customer’s full cooperation to complete projects on a timely basis. In the early stages of a project, the Company is at risk to customers not providing accurate and timely data for project implementation. Also, the Company must frequently access customer facilities, the restriction of which could delay or prevent the completion of projects. Risks Related to the Company’s Real Estate Segment The Company ‘s ownership of commercial real estate involves a number of risks, including general economic and market risks, leasing risk, uninsured losses and condemnation costs, and environmental issues, the effects of which could adversely affect the Company’s real estate business. The market for purchasing and leasing of commercial real estate is affected by general economic and market risks. The Company’s assets might not generate income sufficient to pay expenses, service debt and adequately maintain its real estate properties. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the properties. These factors include, among other things: • Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • Local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties; • The attractiveness of the properties to prospective tenants; • Competition from other available properties; • Changes in market rental rates; and • The need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space. The performance of the Real Estate Segment also depends on the ability to collect rent and expense reimbursements from tenants, and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which costs could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a 13 Table of Contents property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. If a property is mortgaged and the Company is unable to generate sufficient rental income to cover the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property. In addition, capital market conditions, the availability and cost of financing, insurance costs, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning, environmental, and property taxes), other uncontrollable operating costs and financial distress or bankruptcies of tenants could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Operating revenues in the Real Estate Segment are dependent upon entering into multi-year leases with and collecting rents from tenants. National, regional and local economic conditions might adversely impact tenants and potential tenants in the various marketplaces in which the Company’s properties are located, and accordingly, could affect the tenant’s ability to continue to pay rents and possibly to continue to operate in their leased space. Tenants sometimes experience bankruptcies, and pursuant to the various bankruptcy laws, leases may be rejected and thereby terminated prematurely. When leases expire or are terminated, replacement tenants may or may not be available upon acceptable terms and conditions. In addition, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted if existing leases were to expire or were terminated, and at such time, market rental rates were lower than the previous contractual rental rates. The Company’s commercial properties could be subject to uninsured losses and condemnation costs. Accidents, flooding and other losses at the Company’s properties could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Casualties may occur that significantly damage an operating property, and insurance proceeds, if any, may be materially less than the total loss incurred by the Company. Property ownership also involves potential liability to third parties for such matters as personal injuries occurring on a property. The Company, however, maintains casualty and liability insurance under policies that management believes to be customary and appropriate. In addition to uninsured losses, various government authorities may condemn all or part of an operating property or investments in land. Such condemnations could adversely affect the commercial viability of such property or investment in land. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect the Company. Environmental issues that could arise at the Company’s properties could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property. The property owner or operator might have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator previously knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person might have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws might be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties might sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Currently, the Company is not aware of any environmental liabilities at its properties that it believes would have a material adverse effect on its business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to sell income-producing properties on a timely basis could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s Real Estate Segment typically holds real estate assets until such time as it believes to be optimal to sell them. Normally, this will be during relatively strong real estate markets. However, factors beyond the Company’s control could make it necessary for the Company to dispose of real estate properties during weak real estate markets. Following a period when the market values of the Company’s real estate assets were to fall significantly, the Company could be required to sell real estate assets at a time when it may be inopportune to do so. Further, markets for real estate assets are not usually highly liquid, which can make it particularly difficult to realize acceptable selling prices when disposing of real estate assets during weak markets. 14 Table of Contents The Company might not be able to refinance its income-producing properties on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. The Company may incur debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes. A property’s current leasing status, physical condition, net operating income, global, national, regional or local economic conditions, financial market conditions, the level of liquidity available in real estate markets, the Company’s financial position, the terms and conditions of or status of the Company’s other real estate or corporate loans, or other prior financial commitments could impair the Company’s ability to refinance real estate properties at the times when such refinancing might be necessary. Moreover, such refinancing might not be available upon acceptable terms, including in respect of interest rates, amortization schedules, or loan maturities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 