ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating the Company. Any of the following potential risks, if actually realized, could result in a materially negative impact on the Company’s business and financial results. In such an event, the trading price of the Company’s stock could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to the Company The Company’s business depends on the success of its relatively new building performance efficiency offerings. If the Company fails to grow these offerings, its prospects could be adversely affected. In the past several years, the Company has undergone a fundamental change in its primary focus by transitioning away from commercial construction to its current position as a provider of building performance-enhancing services to commercial real estate owners and operators, through the BPE Segment. While the Real Estate Segment is still an important contributor to the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flows, it is not the primary element of the Company’s growth strategy. The Company intends to dedicate most of its future capital resources and management attention to growing the BPE Segment. This BPE Segment differs in some substantial ways from the Company’s former commercial construction business, and from the business of the Real Estate Segment. For instance, several important offerings of the BPE Segment are information technology (“IT”) oriented, which represents a departure from the Company’s legacy businesses. 4 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within its control, including: • the ability to add new products and services to the BPE Segment, and the ability to keep current products and services competitive; • the ability to make profitable business acquisitions and the ability to integrate such acquired businesses into existing operations; • the hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; • the establishment of new relationships or expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; and • the availability of capital. To date, the BPE Segment has not contributed substantially to the Company’s net earnings—in fact, it has yet to achieve sustained profitability. In light of the relative newness of this segment to the Company, and the absence of a proven track record of sustained profitability, the Company cannot guarantee that its growth strategy will be successful. If the Company’s growth strategy were unsuccessful, its revenues, earnings, stock price, and the Company as a whole could be adversely affected. The Company is redeploying a portion of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment to grow the BPE Segment. The Company cannot guarantee that the return, if any, on investing these resources in the new segment will exceed the return that might otherwise be achievable from the Real Estate Segment. The Company intends to dedicate the majority of its capital resources to growing the BPE Segment rather than the Real Estate Segment. Over the past several years, the Company has redeployed some of its capital previously invested in the Real Estate Segment (primarily through sales of income-producing properties) to the BPE Segment. As noted above, the BPE segment does not have a proven track record of sustained profitability, in contrast to the Real Estate Segment, which has historically been consistently profitable and has been the primary source of the Company’s net earnings in recent years. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that the return on its investment in the BPE Segment, if any, will compare favorably to the results that might be achievable otherwise if the Company were to reinvest its capital resources entirely in the Real Estate Segment (or in any other line of business). If the Company’s efforts to grow the BPE Segment do not prove to be successful, the investment of this capital could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. In recent years, net earnings have been driven significantly by capital gains from sales of real estate income-producing properties. Without such capital gains recurring in the future, the Company might not be profitable. The Company’s net earnings in recent years have been driven primarily by significant capital gains from sales of income-producing real estate properties. Although some of the proceeds of these sales have been reinvested in new real estate properties, a significant portion of the proceeds from these sales has been redeployed to growing the BPE Segment. Other proceeds from these sales have been distributed to shareholders as dividends. As a result, in recent years the Company’s real estate dispositions have exceeded its acquisitions, and in light of the Company’s focus on growing the BPE Segment, the Company anticipates that this trend is likely to continue. Consequently, real estate capital gains cannot be depended upon as a primary source for the Company’s long-term profitability. Because of these factors, the Company’s net earnings in the future, unlike its net earnings over the past several years, likely will not result primarily from real estate dispositions. In addition, to the extent that the proceeds from real estate dispositions are not redeployed in acquiring new income producing real estate properties, another source of earnings—rental income— could be negatively impacted. Accordingly, in order for the Company to maintain or improve its net earnings in the future, the BPE Segment will need to be expanded to produce consistent net earnings. There can be no guarantee, however, that the BPE Segment will be able to produce net earnings, if any, sufficient to match the contribution to the Company’s profitability that has resulted from the Real Estate Segment in the past several years, particularly in light of the BPE Segment’s lack of a consistent track record of sustained profitability. If the Company cannot find suitable business acquisition candidates or integrate completed business acquisitions successfully, its prospects could be adversely affected. In addition to organic growth, the Company’s strategy includes growth through business acquisitions. The Company’s BPE Segment, to which the Company is dedicating most of its capital resources and attention, was established through several business acquisitions in recent years. The Company competes for acquisition opportunities with other companies that have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete an acquisition that it determines to be important to the growth strategy, because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company can obtain any requisite financing for such acquisition. 5 Table of Contents Part I (continued) Even if the Company completes a desirable business acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate on a timely basis any newly-acquired company into existing operations. Integration of a substantial business is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the acquisition itself or the integration process could result in the loss of the acquired company’s management or other key employees, the disruption of the acquired company’s business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the acquired company’s ability to maintain good relationships with its suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, successful integration of an acquired company requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organization, operation and systems of an acquired company in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. The Company is dependent upon key personnel and the loss of any such key personnel could adversely impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, the implementation of the Company’s growth strategy will require the addition of suitable personnel. One of the Company’s objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management team at all levels. At any given time, the Company could lose the services of key executives or other key employees. Other than one employee, none of the key executives or other key employees is currently subject to employment agreements or contracts. The loss of services of any key personnel could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and management’s ability to execute its business strategy. If the Company were to lose a member of its senior management team, the Company might be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining a replacement for the departing executive. In addition, the growth of the BPE Segment will require the addition of qualified personnel. Some of the offerings of this segment, such as energy engineering, sales, and the IT-oriented products and services, may require personnel with special skills who are in high demand in the employment marketplace. The Company competes for such personnel with some companies with much greater resources. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to attract and hire such personnel or retain them in the face of better offers from larger competitors. The Company is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and required public disclosure that have increased both the costs of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As a small public company, these costs of compliance may affect the Company disproportionately as compared with larger competitors. As a public company, the Company is subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. The Company’s efforts to comply with these regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “SOX,” may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from earnings-generating activities to compliance activities. The Company has complied with the SOX requirements involving the assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting, which requirements went into effect for the Company for its fiscal year ending April 30, 2008, and the remaining requirements are expected to be put into effect for the Company in fiscal years ending on April 30, 2009, and April 30, 2010. The efforts to comply with the SOX requirements will continue to require the commitment of significant financial and management resources. In addition, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters, and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. If the Company fails to satisfactorily address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent revisions or additions, the business may be adversely impacted. Moreover, many of the compliance costs of SOX and similar rules and regulations are not in direct proportion to the size of a particular company. As a small public company, these costs might affect the Company disproportionately, particularly in comparison to its larger public competitors. The Company may also be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis public company compliance costs compared with its privately held competitors that are not subject to the same regulations. Risks Related to the Company’s BPE Segment Failure to adequately expand the BPE Segment’s sales force may impede its growth. The BPE Segment is dependent on its direct sales force to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage its existing customer base. The Company competes in a very competitive marketplace for sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge the Company requires. The BPE Segment’s ability to achieve significant growth in revenues from BPE services in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s success in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel. New personnel requires 6 Table of Contents significant training. The Company’s recent hires and planned new hires might not turn out to be as productive as the Company would like, and the Company might be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where the Company conducts or desires to conduct its business. If the Company were unable to hire and develop a sufficient number of qualified and productive sales personnel, the sales of the BPE Segment could be adversely impacted, and as a result, the Company’s growth could be impeded. As more of the BPE Segment’s sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, its sales cycle may become longer and more expensive, it may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, and the Company may have to delay revenue recognition with respect to certain sales to these customers, all of which could harm the BPE Segment’s business. The BPE Segment is concentrating on obtaining larger enterprise customers. As the Company targets more of these customers, the Company anticipates potentially facing greater selling costs, longer sales cycles, and less predictability in closing some of its sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to use the Company’s BPE products and services may be an enterprise-wide decision, and if so, these types of sales would require the Company to provide greater levels of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its building performance-enhancing products and services. In addition, larger customers may demand more customization, enhanced integration services, and additional product features and services. As a result of these factors, BPE sales opportunities may require the Company to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up the costs and time required to close sales, and diverting selling and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while at the same time requiring the Company to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. In addition, larger enterprise customers may seek volume discounts and price concessions that could make these transactions less profitable. Because of these factors, the risk of not closing a sale with a larger enterprise customer may be greater than with smaller customers, and the results of such potential failure, due to higher costs and fewer overall ongoing sales initiatives, also can be greater. Moreover, the bargaining power of larger enterprise customers may result in lower profit margins on BPE revenues. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues are derived from fixed price contracts, which could result in losses on some contracts. A portion of the BPE Segment’s revenues and current backlog is based on fixed price or fixed unit price contracts that involve risks relating to the Company’s potential responsibility for the increased costs of performance under such a contract. Generally, under fixed price or fixed unit price contracts, any increase in the Company’s unit cost not caused by a modification or compensable change to the original contract, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, is absorbed by the Company. There are a number of other factors that could create differences in contract performance, as compared to the original contract estimate, including, among other things, differing facility conditions, availability of skilled labor in a particular geographic location, and availability of materials. The BPE Segment often utilizes subcontractors in performing services or completing projects, whose potential unavailability or unsatisfactory performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company often utilizes unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in order to perform some of its energy engineering and consulting services, much of its energy savings maintenance, installation and retrofit projects, and most of its other construction-related projects and services. As a consequence, in order to offer these services, the BPE Segment depends on the continuing availability of, and satisfactory performance by, such subcontractors. There may not be sufficient availability of such subcontractors at the times needed or in the markets in which the BPE Segment operates, or the quality of work by such subcontractors may prove to be below acceptable standards. In addition, the subcontractors may be unable to qualify for payment and performance bonds to ensure their performance or may be otherwise inadequately capitalized. Insurance protection for construction defects, if any, available to subcontractors is increasingly expensive and may become unavailable, and the scope of such protection may become greatly limited. If as a result of such subcontractor problems or failures, the Company were unable to meet its contractual obligations to its customers or were unable to successfully recover sufficient indemnity from its subcontractors or their bond or insurance carriers, the Company could suffer losses which could decrease its net income, damage its customer relations, significantly harm its reputation, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company could be exposed to environmental liability related to the disposal of hazardous materials. A key offering of the Company’s BPE Segment is replacing older existing lighting systems in commercial, industrial and other types of facilities with newer energy efficient lighting systems. The removal of old lighting systems can often involve the removal, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. As noted previously, various federal, state and local laws govern the handling of hazardous materials. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. If the Company were to fail to comply, it could face liability from government authorities or other third parties. Even in cases where the Company subcontracts the disposal of such materials, the Company could face potential liability. Not only could judgments, fines or similar penalties for environmental noncompliance negatively affect the Company’s financial position, the reputation of the BPE Segment and the Company’s other businesses could be harmed as well. 7 Table of Contents Part I (continued) If the BPE Segment’s security measures were breached, and as a result unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, the offerings of the BPE Segment could be perceived as not being sufficiently secure, customers might curtail or stop using the BPE Segment’s products and services, and the BPE Segment could incur significant losses and liabilities. The BPE Segment’s proprietary software solutions involve the storage of customers’ data and information, whether locally on the customers’ own computers or on the Company’s computers in the case of the BPE Segment’s ASP offerings and one of its older legacy products. These products and services also involve the transmission of such data and information in the case of the ASP and the older legacy products. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss of this data and information, potential litigation and possible liability. If security measures were breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data and information to data centers or at any time, and, as a result, someone were to obtain unauthorized access to any customers’ data and information, the Company’s reputation might be damaged, its business might suffer, and it might incur significant losses and liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after being launched against a target, the BPE Segment might be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of security were to occur, the market perception of the effectiveness of the BPE Segment’s security measures could be harmed and the BPE Segment could lose sales and customers. The BPE Segment is dependent on the assistance of its customers to complete projects on a timely basis. If a customer were unable or unwilling to offer assistance, it could affect project timelines and reduce or slow the collection of energy savings revenues. Much of the work performed by the BPE Segment requires significant interaction with its customers. Therefore, the Company must have its customers’ full cooperation to complete projects on a timely basis. In the early stages of a project, the Company is at risk to customers not providing accurate or timely data for project implementation. Also, the Company must frequently access customer facilities, the restriction of which could delay or prevent the completion of projects. Risks Related to the Company’s Real Estate Segment The Company’s ownership of commercial real estate involves a number of risks, including general economic and market risks, leasing risk, uninsured losses and condemnation costs, and environmental issues, the effects of which could adversely affect the Company’s real estate business. The market for purchasing and leasing of commercial real estate is affected by general economic and market risks. The Company’s assets might not generate income sufficient to pay expenses, service debt, and adequately maintain its real estate properties. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the properties. These factors include, among other things: • Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • Local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties; • The attractiveness of the properties to prospective tenants; • Competition from other available properties; • Changes in market rental rates; and • The need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space. The performance of the Real Estate Segment also depends on the ability to collect rent and expense reimbursements from tenants, and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which costs could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. If a property is mortgaged and the Company is unable to generate sufficient rental income to cover the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the property. In addition, capital market conditions, the availability and cost of financing, insurance costs, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning, environmental, and property taxes), other uncontrollable operating costs, and financial distress or bankruptcies of tenants could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Operating revenues in the Real Estate Segment are dependent upon entering into multi-year leases with tenants and collecting rents from tenants. National, regional and local economic conditions might adversely impact tenants and potential tenants in the various marketplaces in which the Company’s properties are located, and accordingly, could affect the tenants’ ability to continue to pay rents and possibly to continue to operate in their leased space. Tenants sometimes experience bankruptcies, and pursuant to the various bankruptcy laws, leases may be rejected and thereby terminated prematurely. When leases expire or are terminated, replacement tenants may or may not be available with acceptable terms and conditions. In addition, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted if existing leases were to expire or be terminated, and at such time, market rental rates were lower than the previous contractual rental rates. The Company’s commercial properties could be subject to uninsured losses and condemnation costs. Accidents, floods and other losses at the Company’s properties could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Casualties may occur that significantly damage an operating property, and insurance proceeds, if any, may be materially less than the total loss incurred by the Company. Property ownership also involves potential liability to third parties for such matters as personal injuries occurring on a property. The Company, however, maintains casualty and liability insurance under policies that management believes to be customary and appropriate. In addition to uninsured losses, various government authorities may condemn all or part of an operating property or undeveloped land. Such condemnations could adversely affect the commercial viability of such property. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect the Company. Environmental issues that could arise at the Company’s real estate properties could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property. The property owner or operator might have to pay a governmental entity or third party for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator previously knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person might have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws might be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties might sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Currently, the Company is not aware of any environmental liabilities at its properties that it believes would have a material adverse effect on its business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to sell income-producing properties on a timely basis could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s Real Estate Segment typically holds real estate assets until such time as it believes to be optimal to sell them. Normally, this will be during relatively strong real estate markets. However, factors beyond the Company’s control could make it necessary for the Company to attempt to dispose of real estate properties during weak real estate markets. Following a period when the market values of the Company’s real estate assets were to fall significantly, the Company could be required to sell real estate assets at a time when it may be inopportune to do so or be subject to a valuation impairment. Further, markets for real estate assets usually are not highly liquid, which can make it particularly difficult to realize acceptable selling prices when disposing of real estate assets during weak markets. The Company might not be able to refinance its income-producing properties on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. The Company may incur debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, or for other purposes. A property’s current leasing status, physical condition, net operating income, global, national, regional or local economic conditions, financial market conditions, the level of liquidity available in real estate markets, the Company’s financial position, the terms and conditions or status of the Company’s other real estate or corporate loans, or other prior financial commitments could impair the Company’s ability to refinance real estate properties at the times when such refinancing might be necessary. Moreover, such refinancing might not be available upon acceptable terms, including in respect of loan principal amounts, interest rates, amortization schedules, or maturity terms. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Table of Contents Part I (continued) 