Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K, and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or mo re of these risks could also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Ongoing economic conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business and results of operations. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary levels, wage rates, availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence, fluctuating fuel and energy costs, and consumer perception of economic conditions. Consumer discretionary spending, including purchases of women’s apparel, tends to decline during recessionary periods. The recent deterioration in economic conditions in both the domestic and global economies has adversely affected our business and our results of operations. The tightening of consumer credit and an uncertain economic outlook has caused a reduction in consumer spending, which has contributed to a significant reduction in our net sales. We could be required to take additional markdowns in response to lower-than-anticipated levels of demand for our products, and promotional activity by our competitors could have a further adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot reliably predict the extent to which current or future economic conditions will affect our business. We expect retail demand and revenues to remain weak for an extended period of time, and we will continue to maintain inventory levels and purchases in line with our expectations for reduced customer demand. A prolonged continuation of the current economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women's apparel. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to quickly changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. These risks may increase as we shift a higher proportion of our product from third-party vendors and domestic sourcing to internally-designed merchandise and overseas sourcing. The increased lead times associated with overseas sourcing could increase our risk of misjudging fashion trends or styles. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed sales opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. This could also impact our reputation with our customers, which could diminish brand loyalty. Existing and increased competition in the women's retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets may reduce our net revenues, profits, and market share. The women's specialty retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog retailers, and internet-based retailers. As a result of this competition we are required to effectively market and competitively price our products to consumers in diverse markets, and we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures, and loss of market share. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including reduced sales and margins. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are merchandise style, size, selection, fit, quality, display, price, attractive website layout, efficient fulfillment of website mail orders, and personalized service to our customers, as well as store location, design, advertising, and promotion. Other women's apparel and direct-to-consumer companies with greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, or brand recognition may enter the plus-size business. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Maintaining and improving our operating margins are dependent on our ability to successfully control our operating costs. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs, or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state and Federal laws and regulations governing such matters as minimum wages, exempt status classification, overtime, and employee benefits. Changes in Federal or state laws or regulations regarding minimum wages, unionization, or other employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefit costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. & #160;In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our operations at a reasonable cost. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will realize the expected benefits from our private-label credit card programs. We cannot assure that we will realize the expected benefits from the ten-year operating agreements with Alliance Data. A significant portion of our sales revenues are generated through our private-label credit cards. Therefore, changes in the private-label credit card programs that adversely impact our ability to facilitate customer credit may adversely impact our results of operations. Alliance Data will have discretion over certain policies and arrangements with the cardholders and may change these policies and arrangements in ways that could affect our relationship with the cardholders. Any such changes could adversely affect our private-label credit card sales and our results of operations. Our ability to continue to offer private-label credit card progra ms to our customers will depend on the success of our strategic alliance with Alliance Data. Credit card operations are subject to numerous Federal and state laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing, and enforcement of credit accounts, and limitations on the amount of finance charges and fees that may be charged by a credit card provider. Alliance Data may be subject to regulations to which we were not subject prior to the sale of the credit card portfolio. To the extent that such limitations or regulations materially limit the availability of credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders or negatively impact provisions which affect our revenue streams associated with the ten-year operating agreements, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in credit card use, payment patterns, or de fault rates could be affected by a variety of economic, legal, social, or other factors over which we have no control and cannot predict with certainty. Such changes could also negatively impact the availability of credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders or negatively impact provisions that affect our revenue streams associated with the ten-year operating agreements. We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital financing. Our business requires substantial investment in our inventory for a long period before sales of that inventory occur. Consequently, we require significant amounts of working capital financing. We depend on the availability of credit to fund our working capital, including credit we receive from our bankers, our factors, our suppliers and their agents, and on our ongoing payments from our strategic alliance related to private-label credit card sales. The current global financial crisis could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our vendors to secure adequate credit financing. If we or our vendors are unable to obtain sufficient financing at an affordable cost, our ability to merchandise our retail stores or e-commerce businesses could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully execute on our key priorities. We continue to execute on our five key priorities to guide our organization: (1) focus on the customer; (2) stabilize and begin to grow profitable revenue; (3) increase EBITDA; (4) increase cash flow; and (5) employee empowerment with accountability. Our key priorities are designed to support our strategic goals to enhance our competitive position and improve our financial results. We cannot assure the successful execution and the realization of the benefits of our key priorities, which may vary materially based on various factors, including the timing of execution of our strategic initiatives. 12 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate from season to season. Our retail store and direct-to-consumer operations experience seasonal fluctuations in net sales and consequently in operating income, with peak sales typically occurring during the Easter, Labor Day, and December holiday seasons. In addition, extreme or unseasonable weather can affect our sales. Any decrease in net sales or margins during our peak selling periods, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months before these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, including perishable products for our FIGI’S food and gifts operations, before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face challenges in managing our business. Successful long-term growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our internal systems and our operations, including our internal sourcing operations. These objectives have created, and may continue to create, additional demands on our staff and on our operating systems. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our business plan to re-focus on our core brands, divest non-core assets, and increase our percentage of internally designed, developed, and sourced fashion product, or that we will achieve our objectives as quickly or as effectively as we have planned. Any delays in achieving our objectives could substantially increase the costs associated with such initiatives. Certain of our business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include credit card authorization and processing, our e-commerce platform, and certain other information technology functions. Although we seek to insure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. The failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our customers’ shopping experience, our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. Our long-term growth plan for our Retail Stores segment depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores and to convert, where applicable, the formats of existing stores on a profitable basis. In addition, we will need to identify, hire, and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our stores. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and their management teams and our ability to attract, hire, and retain officers and management. We also must motivate employees to remain focused on our strategies and goals, particularly during a period of changing executive leadership at both our corporate level and our operating division level. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. If we cannot hire and retain effective management, we may be unable to compete effectively with other retailers. Recent changes in, and additions to, our management as part of the implementation of our multi-year strategy and our effort to improve our competitive position and results of operations may not achieve the desired results. 13 Table of Contents Our business plan is largely dependent upon continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. Our business is primarily focused on sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which represents a majority of our total net sales. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by a lack of continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down. We operate distribution and fulfillment centers in Greencastle, Indiana; White Marsh, Maryland; Marshfield, Wisconsin; and Stevens Point, Wisconsin and use a third-party fulfillment center in Indianapolis, Indiana that services our e-commerce operations. In addition, we use third-party freight consolidators and service providers in Los Angeles, California and North Bergen, New Jersey. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution and fulfillment centers or freight consolidators where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores or to the customer. If any of our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, or freight consolidators were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other locations may not be able to adequately sup port the resulting additional distribution demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each location services a particular brand or brands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the affected distribution center, fulfillment center, or freight consolidator. Should the third-party fulfillment center that services our e-commerce operations cease providing fulfillment services the resultant failure to deliver e-commerce orders promptly could adversely affect our e-commerce operations and our results of operations. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict on the United States or international economies may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict could negatively affect our ability to obtain merchandise for sale in our stores or through our direct-to-consumer business. A significant portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States and we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our net sales and profit margins may be adversely impacted. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, freight consolidators, stores, or our direct-to-consumer customers. 60; As a result of the occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster or acts of terrorism in the United States we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage customer service or fulfillment for our e-commerce websites could adversely impact our results of operations. Successful management of our e-commerce operations is dependent on our and our vendors’ ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted customer service and order fulfillment. Inadequate systems capacity, a disruption or slowdown in telecommunications services, changes in technology, vendor disputes, changes in government regulations, systems issues, security breaches, a failure to integrate order management systems, or customer privacy issues could result in reduced sales or increases in operating expenses as a result of our efforts or our inability to remedy such issues. In addition, we and our vendors may not be able to hire sufficient qualified associates to support our e-commerce operations during peak periods, especially during the December holiday season. The occurren ce of one or more of these events could adversely affect our e-commerce business. 14 Table of Contents We rely on foreign sources of production. We purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad. Such risks include (but are not necessarily limited to): ● political instability; ● increased security requirements applicable to imported goods; ● trade restrictions; ● imposition of or changes in duties, quotas, taxes, and other charges on imports; ● currency and exchange risks; ● issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; ● concerns over anti-dumping; ● delays in shipping; or ● increased costs of transportation. New requirements could be proposed that would have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and could include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. Our purchasing patterns are dictated by our seasonal inventory requirements. We typically enter into purchase commitments with our vendors for seasonal inventories up to six months ahead of when we take delivery of those products. All of our purchase commitments with foreign vendors are denominated in U.S. dollars and are settled in U.S. dollars. These arrangements provide a natural hedge to the impacts of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies during the period from when we enter into purchase commitments with our vendors to when we take delivery of the products in the countries from which we source our products. However, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies can impact the negotiated pricing for produc ts when comparing one seasonal buying period to another. We have a network of countries and vendors from which we can source, but additional weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to those foreign currencies could increase the cost of our foreign-sourced products. The future performance of our business depends on our foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, which are beyond our control. Issues of global workplace conditions may adversely affect our business. If any one of our manufacturers or vendors fails to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, is perceived by the public as failing to meet certain United States labor standards, or employs unfair labor practices, our business could be adversely affected. Current global workplace concerns of the public include perceived low wages, poor working conditions, age of employees, and various other employment standards. These globalization issues may affect the available supply of certain manufacturers' products, which may result in increased costs to us. Furthermore, a negative customer perception of any of our key vendors or their products may result in a lower customer demand for our apparel. 15 Table of Contents We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations for our Retail Stores segment. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores, or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations. We cannot assure that desirable store locations will continue to be available. Acquisition of additional store locations is also dependent on our ability to successfully negotiate lease terms for such locations. In addition, the timely opening of new store locations could be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals, lack of availability of construction materials and labor, or work stoppages. Our ability to acquire or maintain desirable store locations could be adversely affected by financial difficulties encountered by strip shopping center or mall landlords or by competition with other retailers for prime locations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and servicemarks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and servicemarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and servicemarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, servicemarks, or proprietary rights. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satis faction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may acquire or divest businesses or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, which may materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses and may decide to buy or sell businesses or enter into joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Significant acquisitions and alliances may increase demands on management, financial resources, and information and internal control systems. Our success with respect to acquisitions and alliances will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses and alliances with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve, and expand our systems, procedures, and controls. In addition, we may divest existing businesses, which would cause a decline in revenues and may make our financial results more volatile. If we fail to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully or to manag e the risks associated with divestitures, joint ventures, or other alliances, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents OTHER RISKS Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a change in control, such as provisions that: ● do not permit cumulative voting; ● permit our board to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● require certain advance notice procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations by or at the direction of our board; ● prevent our directors from being removed without cause except upon super-majority shareholder approval; and ● prevent a holder of 20% or more of our common stock from taking certain actions without certain approvals. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 we are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a possible loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Such a failure could result in our inability to provide timely and/or reliable financial information and could adversely affect our business. We could be required to repurchase our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 for cash prior to maturity of the notes. The holders of our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 (the “1.125% Notes”) could require us to repurchase the principal amount of the notes for cash before maturity of the notes upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” as defined in the prospectus filed in connection with the 1.125% Notes. Such a repurchase would require significant amounts of cash, would be subject to important limitations on our ability to repurchase, such as the risk of our inability to obtain funds for such repurchase, and could adversely affect our financial condition. New accounting rules or regulations or changes in existing rules or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or the adoption of new rules could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations, which could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Changes in estimates related to our evaluation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets for impairment could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We make certain significant assumptions, estimates, and projections related to the useful lives and valuation of our property, plant, and equipment and the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. The carrying amount and/or useful life of these assets are subject to periodic and/or annual valuation tests for impairment. Impairment results when the carrying value of an asset exceeds the undiscounted (or for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets the discounted) future cash flows associated with the asset. If actual experience were to differ materially from the assumptions, estimates, and projections used to determine useful lives or the valuation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets, a write-down for impairment of the carrying value of the assets, or acceleration of depreciation or amortization of the assets, could result. Such a write-down or acceleration of depreciation or amortization could have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 