Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K, and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY A continuing slowdown in the United States economy, an uncertain economic outlook, and escalating energy costs could lead to further reductions in consumer demand for our products in the future. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary levels, wage rates, availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence, fluctuating fuel and energy costs, and consumer perception of economic conditions. Consumer discretionary spending, including purchases of women’s apparel, tends to decline during recessionary periods. The continuing general slowdown in the United States economy, the global credit crisis, and an uncertain economic outlook have adversely affected consumer spending habits and customer traffic, which have contributed to a reduction in our net sales. We cannot reliably predict the extent to which the current economic conditions will affect our business. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women's apparel. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to quickly changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. These risks may increase as we shift a higher proportion of our product from third-party vendors to internally-designed merchandise. If we are unable to successfully implement our plans for the transformation of our brands to a vertical store model or successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed sales opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. This could also impact our reputation with our customers, which could diminish brand loyalty. Existing and increased competition in the women's retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets may reduce our net revenues, profits, and market share. The women's specialty retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog retailers, and Internet-based retailers. As a result of this competition we are required to effectively market and competitively price our products to consumers in diverse markets, and we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures, and loss of market share. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including reduced sales and margins. 11 Table of Contents We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are merchandise style, size, selection, fit, quality, display, price, attractive website layout, efficient fulfillment of website mail orders, and personalized service to our customers, as well as store location, design, advertising, and promotion. Other women's apparel and direct-to-consumer companies with greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, or brand recognition may enter the plus-size business. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Maintaining and improving our operating margins are dependent on our ability to successfully control our operating costs. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs, or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state and Federal laws and regulations governing such matters as minimum wages, exempt status classification, overtime, and employee benefits. Changes in Federal or state laws or regulations regarding minimum wages, unionization, or other employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefit costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The finance charges on most of our proprietary credit card accounts are billed using a floating rate index, subject to a floor and limited by legal maximums. Changes in legislation limiting interest rates and other credit card charges that can be billed on credit card accounts could negatively impact the operating margins of our credit operation. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our operations at a reasonable cost. We may be unable to attain the expected results of our cost-cutting initiatives. In Fiscal 2009 we announced initiatives and actions designed to: streamline our business operations and further sharpen our focus on our core businesses, including the discontinuation of our LANE BRYANT WOMAN catalog and our figure magazine, and reduction of operating expenses and capital expenditures; improve cash flow; and enhance shareholder value. The benefits of our initiatives are based on forecasts which could vary substantially from our actual results. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our planned cost reduction and capital budget reduction plans, and we cannot assure the realization of our anticipated annualized expense savings from cost reduction initiatives and restructuring programs announced in Fiscal 2009. We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital financing. Our business requires substantial investment in our inventory for a long period before sales of that inventory occur. Consequently, we require significant amounts of working capital financing. We depend on the availability of credit to fund our working capital, including credit we receive from our suppliers and their agents, on our credit card securitization program, and on our revolving credit facility. In addition, the current global financial crisis could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our vendors to secure adequate credit financing. If we or our vendors are unable to obtain sufficient financing at an affordable cost, our ability to merchandise our retail stores or e-commerce businesses could be adversely affected. We plan to refinance our maturing credit card term securitization series with our credit conduit facilities, which are renewed annually, or through the issuance of a new term series. To the extent that our conduit facilities are not renewed they would begin to amortize and we would finance this amortization using our committed revolving credit facilities to the extent available. There is no assurance that we can refinance or renew our conduit facilities on terms comparable to our existing facilities or that there would be sufficient availability under our revolving credit facilities for such financing. These concerns are heightened by the current global economic credit crisis. Without adequate liquidity, our ability to offer our credit program to our customers, and consequently our financial condition and results of operations, would be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents On February 19, 2009, Moody's Investors Service, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (“NRSRO”) that has rated our term series securitizations in the past, announced that it had downgraded the ratings of our term series asset-backed securities. No other NRSRO took a similar action. The Moody’s action could negatively impact our ability to complete future term series securitization transactions on acceptable terms and cause our asset securitization program to rely on other potentially more expensive funding sources to the extent available. The Moody’s action does not affect our current conduit and term series transactions, which we currently expect will provide sufficient funding for our securitization program for Fiscal 2010. Our operating results fluctuate from season to season. Our retail store and direct-to-consumer operations experience seasonal fluctuations in net sales and consequently in operating income, with peak sales typically occurring during the Easter, Labor Day, and December holiday seasons. In addition, extreme or unseasonable weather can affect our sales. Any decrease in net sales or margins during our peak selling periods similar to what we experienced during our December 2008 holiday season, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months before these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, including perishable products for our FIGI’S food and gift catalog, before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face challenges in managing our business. Our operating challenges and management responsibilities are increasing as we re-focus on the development of our core brands, divestiture of our non-core assets, and the implementation of our plans for the transformation of our brands to a vertical store model. Successful long-term growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our internal systems and our operations, including our internal sourcing operations. Our long-term growth plan for our Retail Stores segment depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores and to convert, where applicable, the formats of existing stores on a profitable basis. In addition, we will need to identify, hire, and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our stores. These objectives have created, and may continue to create, additional demands on our staff and on our operating systems. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our business plan to re-focus on our core brands, divest non-core assets (including the sale of our FIGI’S catalog), and transform our operations to a vertical store model, or that we will achieve our objectives as quickly or as effectively as we have planned. Any delays in achieving our objectives could substantially increase the costs associated with such initiatives. Recent changes in our management as part of an effort to improve our competitive position and operating results may not achieve the desired results. 13 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and their management teams. We also must motivate employees to remain focused on our strategies and goals, particularly during a period of changing executive leadership at both our corporate level and our operating division level. The inability to find a suitable permanent replacement for our Interim Chief Executive Officer within a reasonable time period could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our business plan is largely dependent upon continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. Our business is primarily focused on sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which represents a majority of our total net sales. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a lack of continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down. We operate distribution and fulfillment centers in Greencastle, Indiana; White Marsh, Maryland; Marshfield, Wisconsin; and Stevens Point, Wisconsin and use a third-party fulfillment center in Indianapolis, Indiana that services our e-commerce operations. In addition, we use third-party freight consolidators and service providers in Los Angeles, California and North Bergen, New Jersey. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution and fulfillment centers or freight consolidators where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores or to the customer. If any of our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, or freight consolidators were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other locations may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each location services a particular brand or brands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the affected distribution center, fulfillment center, or freight consolidator. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict on the United States or international economies may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict could negatively affect our ability to obtain merchandise for sale in our stores or through our direct-to-consumer business. A significant portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States and we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our net sales and profit margins may be adversely impacted. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, freight consolidators, stores, or our direct-to-consumer customers. As a result of the occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster or acts of terrorism in the United States we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully manage customer service or fulfillment for our e-commerce websites could adversely impact our operating results. Successful management of our e-commerce operations is dependent on our ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted customer service and order fulfillment. Inadequate systems capacity, a disruption or slowdown in telecommunications services, changes in technology, changes in government regulations, systems issues, security breaches, a failure to integrate order management systems, or customer privacy issues could result in reduced sales or increases in operating expenses as a result of our efforts or our inability to remedy such issues. In addition, we may not be able to hire sufficient qualified associates to support our e-commerce operations during peak periods, especially during the December holiday season. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our e-commerce business. During Fiscal 2009 we began to implement a new and upgraded e-commerce platform through an outsourcing arrangement and the consolidation of our e-commerce business at our Bensalem, Pennsylvania headquarters. If we are unsuccessful in effectively implementing the new platform and consolidation our e-commerce business could be adversely affected. We rely on foreign sources of production. We purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad. Such risks include (but are not necessarily limited to): ● political instability; ● increased security requirements applicable to imported goods; ● trade restrictions; ● imposition of or changes in duties, quotas, taxes, and other charges on imports; ● currency and exchange risks; ● issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; ● concerns over anti-dumping; ● delays in shipping; or ● increased costs of transportation. New requirements could be proposed that would have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and could include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. Our purchasing patterns are dictated by our seasonal inventory requirements. We typically enter into purchase commitments with our vendors for seasonal inventories up to six months ahead of when we take delivery of those products. All of our purchase commitments with foreign vendors are denominated in U.S. dollars and are settled in U.S. dollars. These arrangements provide a natural hedge to the impacts of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies during the period from when we enter into purchase commitments with our vendors to when we take delivery of the products in the countries from which we source our products. However, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies can impact the negotiated pricing for products when comparing one seasonal buying period to another. We have a network of countries and vendors from which we can source, but additional weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to those foreign currencies could negatively impact the cost of our foreign-sourced products. The future performance of our business depends on our foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, which are beyond our control. 15 Table of Contents Issues of global workplace conditions may adversely affect our business. If any one of our manufacturers or vendors fails to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, is perceived by the public as failing to meet certain labor standards in the United States, or employs unfair labor practices, our business could be adversely affected. Current global workplace concerns of the public include perceived low wages, poor working conditions, age of employees, and various other employment standards. These globalization issues may affect the available supply of certain manufacturers' products, which may result in increased costs to us. Furthermore, a negative customer perception of any of our key vendors or their products may result in a lower customer demand for our apparel. We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations for our Retail Stores segment. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores, or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations. We cannot assure that desirable store locations will continue to be available. Acquisition of additional store locations is also dependent on our ability to successfully negotiate lease terms for such locations. In addition, the timely opening of new store locations could be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals, lack of availability of construction materials and labor, or work stoppages. Our ability to acquire or maintain desirable store locations could be adversely affected by financial difficulties encountered by strip shopping center or mall landlords. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and servicemarks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and servicemarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and servicemarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, servicemarks, or proprietary rights. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may acquire or divest businesses or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, which may materially affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses and may decide to buy or sell businesses or enter into joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Significant acquisitions and alliances may increase demands on management, financial resources, and information and internal control systems. Our success with respect to acquisitions and alliances will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses and alliances with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve, and expand our systems, procedures, and controls. In addition, we may divest existing businesses, which would cause a decline in revenues and may make our financial results more volatile. If we fail to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully or to manage the risks associated with divestitures, joint ventures, or other alliances, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents OTHER RISKS Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a change in control, such as provisions that: ● do not permit cumulative voting; ● permit our board to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● require certain advance notice procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations by or at the direction of our board; ● prevent our directors from being removed without cause except upon super-majority shareholder approval; and ● prevent a holder of 20% or more of our common stock from taking certain actions without certain approvals. We also have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that expires in April 2009. This plan may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for such stock and, accordingly, may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock in connection with any such transaction. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 we are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a possible loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Such a failure could result in our inability to provide timely and/or reliable financial information and could adversely affect our business. We could be required to repurchase our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 for cash prior to maturity of the notes. The holders of our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 (the “1.125% Notes”) could require us to repurchase the principal amount of the notes for cash before maturity of the notes upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” as defined in the prospectus filed in connection with the 1.125% Notes. Such a repurchase would require significant amounts of cash, would be subject to important limitations on our ability to repurchase, such as the risk of our inability to obtain funds for such repurchase, and could adversely affect our financial condition. See “If we are unable to maintain the standards necessary for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market our common stock could be de-listed. Such de-listing could have an adverse effect on the market liquidity of our common stock and could harm our business.” below for additional information. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain the standards necessary for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market our common stock could be de-listed. Such de-listing could have an adverse effect on the market liquidity of our common stock and could harm our business. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. NASDAQ rules require, among other things, that the minimum closing bid price of our common stock be at least $1.00. Recently, our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share. If the minimum closing bid price of our common stock fails to meet NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement for a period of 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ may take steps to de-list our common stock. However, before any de-listing could occur, we would have an initial 180-day cure period in which to achieve compliance with the minimum closing bid price. If we were unable to achieve compliance within this 180-day period, we could transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we then meet its initial listing criteria (other than the minimum bid price). Following such transfer, we would have an additional 180-day period in which to achieve compliance with the minimum bid price. On March 23, 2009, NASDAQ suspended the $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price requirement through at least July 20, 2009. Consequently, for as long as NASDAQ’s rule suspension remains in effect, NASDAQ will not take steps to de-list our common stock if the minimum closing bid price for our common stock trades below $1.00 per share during the rule suspension period. We can provide no assurance, however, that NASDAQ will extend this rule suspension period beyond July 20, 2009. Any de-listing would likely have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock could become more volatile and significantly decline. We may seek to avoid de-listing by requesting shareholder approval for a reverse stock split. However, we can give no assurance that such action would stabilize the market price, improve the liquidity of our common stock, or would prevent our common stock from dropping below the NASDAQ minimum closing bid price requirement in the future. Such consequences may however be mitigated by our dual-listing on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Holders of our 1.125% Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their notes for cash prior to maturity upon a “fundamental change,” which is deemed to have occurred if, among other events, our common stock at any time is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange. Due to the above risk that we could be subject to de-listing from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we applied for dual-listing on the Chicago Stock Exchange (“CHX”) and began trading on March 26, 2009. The CHX does not have a $1.00 minimum stock price requirement for listing. New accounting rules or regulations or changes in existing rules or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or the adoption of new rules could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations. In September 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued exposure drafts proposing amendments to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,” and FASB Interpretation No. 46R, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” Currently, transfers of our credit card receivables in securitization transactions qualify for sale accounting treatment. We do not consolidate the trust used in our securitizations for financial reporting purposes because the trust is a qualifying special purpose entity (“QSPE”). Because the transfers qualify as sales and the trust is not subject to consolidation under current generally accepted accounting principles, we do not include the assets and liabilities of the trust in our consolidated balance sheets. 18 Table of Contents Under the proposed amendments, the concept of a QSPE would be eliminated, the consolidation model for variable interest entities would be modified, and a continual reassessment of consolidation conclusions would be required. If adopted, we would be required to adopt the amendments as of the beginning of Fiscal 2011. As a result of adoption, we could be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of our securitization trust, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in estimates related to our evaluation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets for impairment could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We make certain significant assumptions, estimates, and projections related to the useful lives and valuation of our property, plant, and equipment and the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. The carrying amount and/or useful life of these assets are subject to periodic and/or annual valuation tests for impairment. Impairment results when the carrying value of an asset exceeds the undiscounted (or for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets the discounted) future cash flows associated with the asset. If actual experience were to differ materially from the assumptions, estimates, and projections used to determine useful lives or the valuation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets, a write-down for impairment of the carrying value of the assets, or acceleration of depreciation or amortization of the assets, could result. Such a write-down or acceleration of depreciation or amortization could have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 