Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women's apparel. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to quickly changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed sales opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Existing and increased competition in the women's retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets may reduce our net revenues, profits, and market share. The women's specialty retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog retailers, and Internet-based retailers. As a result of this competition, we are required to effectively market and competitively price our products to consumers in diverse markets, and we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures, and loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are merchandise style, size, selection, quality, and price, as well as store location, design, advertising, promotion, and personalized service to our customers. Other women's apparel and direct-to-consumer companies with greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, or brand recognition may enter the plus-size business. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. A slowdown in the United States economy, an uncertain economic outlook, and escalating energy costs could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products in the future. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary levels, wage rates, availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the United States economy and an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits and mall traffic, which could result in a reduction in our net sales. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maintaining and improving our operating margins is dependent on our ability to successfully control our operating costs. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins, we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, increases in costs such as postage and paper, occupancy costs, or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, would adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our operations at a reasonable cost. Our operating results fluctuate from season to season. Our retail store and direct-to-consumer operations experience seasonal fluctuations in net sales and consequently in operating income, with peak sales occurring during the Easter, Labor Day, and Christmas seasons. In addition, extreme or unseasonable weather can affect our sales. Any decrease in net sales or margins during our peak selling periods, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months before these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, including perishable products in certain of our direct-to-consumer businesses, before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital financing. Our business requires substantial investment in our inventory for a long period before sales occur. Consequently, we require significant amounts of working capital financing. We depend on the availability of credit to fund our working capital, including credit we receive from our suppliers and their agents, on our credit card securitization program, and on our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing at an affordable cost, we might be unable to adequately merchandise our stores, E-commerce, or catalog businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face challenges in managing our recent growth. Our operating challenges and management responsibilities are increasing as we continue to grow and expand into additional distribution channels. Successful growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our internal systems and our operations, including our distribution infrastructure. Our business plan depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores and to convert, where applicable, the formats of existing stores on a profitable basis. In addition, we will need to identify, hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our stores. We are also seeking to complete the integration of Crosstown Traders and our Direct-to-Consumer channel into our current operating structure. Growth in our Direct-to-Consumer channel is dependent on sufficient response rates to our catalogs and Internet websites and access to new customers, which may not occur. In addition, we plan to continue to build infrastructure in our Direct to Consumer channel to prepare for the launch of new catalogs, including the launch of the LANE BRYANT catalog in calendar 2007 when the LANE BRYANT catalog trademark, currently licensed by a third party, reverts to us. These objectives have created, and may continue to create, additional pressure on our staff and on our operating systems. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our business plan for our Retail Store and Direct-to-Consumer segments, or that we will achieve our objectives as quickly or as effectively as we hope. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Dorrit J. Bern, and her management team. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our business plan is largely dependent upon continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. Our business is primarily focused on sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which represents a majority of our total net sales. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a lack of continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. 13 Table of Contents We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down. We operate distribution facilities in Greencastle, Indiana, and Baltimore County, Maryland, and we operate catalog fulfillment centers in Tucson, Arizona, Marshfield, Wisconsin, Stevens Point, Wisconsin, and Wilmington, North Carolina. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution and fulfillment centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores or to the customer. If any of our distribution or fulfillment centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other distribution or fulfillment centers may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each distribution or fulfillment center services a particular brand or brands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the affected distribution or fulfillment center. Natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism, or the threat of either may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of a natural disaster, war, or acts of terrorism, or if either are threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise for sale in our stores or through our direct-to-consumer business may be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our net sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, stores, or our direct-to-consumer customers. In the event of a natural disaster or acts of terrorism in the United States, or the threat of either, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage customer service or fulfillment for our E-commerce websites or our catalog business could adversely impact our operating results. Successful management of our E-commerce and catalog operations is dependent on our ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted customer service and order fulfillment. Inadequate systems capacity, a disruption or slowdown in telecommunications services, changes in technology, changes in government regulations, systems issues, security breaches, a failure to integrate order management systems, or customer privacy issues could result in reduced sales or increases in operating expenses as a result of our efforts or our inability to remedy such issues. In addition, we may not be able to hire sufficient qualified associates to support our E-commerce or catalog operations during peak periods, especially during the Christmas holiday season. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our E-commerce or catalog businesses. 14 Table of Contents We rely on foreign sources of production. We purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad. Such risks include (but are not necessarily limited to): ● political instability; ● increased security requirements applicable to imported goods; ● trade restrictions; ● imposition of, or changes in, duties, quotas, taxes, and other charges on imports; ● currency and exchange risks; ● issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; ● concerns over anti-dumping, ● delays in shipping; or ● increased costs of transportation. New initiatives could be proposed that would have an impact on the trading status of certain countries, and could include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. The future performance of our business will depend on our foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, all of which are beyond our control. Issues of global workplace conditions may adversely affect our business. If any one of our manufacturers or vendors fails to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, is perceived by the public as failing to meet certain labor standards in the United States, or employs unfair labor practices, our business could be adversely affected. Current global workplace concerns of the public include perceived low wages, poor working conditions, age of employees, and various other employment standards. These globalization issues may affect the available supply of certain manufacturers' products, which may result in increased costs to us. Furthermore, a negative customer perception of any of our key vendors or their products may result in a lower customer demand for our apparel. We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations for our Retail Stores segment. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations. We cannot assure you that desirable store locations will continue to be available. Acquisition of additional store locations is also dependent on our ability to successfully negotiate lease terms for such locations. In addition, the timely opening of new store locations could be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals, lack of availability of construction materials and labor, or work stoppages. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and servicemarks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and servicemarks on a worldwide basis. We are not aware of any claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and servicemarks in the United States. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and servicemarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, servicemarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. OTHER RISKS Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a change in control. For example, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: ● classify our board into three classes, with one class being elected each year; ● do not permit cumulative voting; ● permit our board to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● require certain advance notice procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations by or at the direction of our board; ● prohibit us from engaging in some types of business combinations with a holder of 10% or more of our voting securities without super-majority shareholder or board approval; ● prevent our directors from being removed without cause except upon super-majority shareholder approval; and ● prevent a holder of 20% or more of our common stock from taking certain actions without certain approvals. We also have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan. This plan may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for such stock, and, accordingly, may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock in connection with any such transaction. 16 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to perform periodic assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and to report on the results of our assessments in our quarterly and annual reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required on an annual basis to attest to whether or not our assessment is fairly stated in all material respects and to separately report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a possible loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Such a failure could result in our inability to provide timely and/or reliable financial information and could adversely affect our business. New accounting rules or regulations or changes in existing rules or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or the adoption of new rules could require us to recognize financial statement effects which could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Changes in estimates related to our property, plant, equipment, or our intangible assets could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We make certain significant assumptions, estimates, and projections related to the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment and the valuation of intangible assets related to acquisitions. The carrying amount and/or useful life of these assets are subject to periodic valuation tests for impairment. Impairment results when the carrying value of an asset exceeds the undiscounted (or for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets the discounted) future cash flows associated with the asset. If actual experience were to differ materially from the assumptions, estimates, and projections used to determine useful lives or the valuation of property, plant, equipment or intangible assets, a write-down for impairment of the carrying value of the assets, or acceleration of depreciation or amortization of the assets, could result. Such a write-down or acceleration of depreciation or amortization could have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 