Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K, and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or more of these risks coul d also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. 8 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Ongoing economic conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business and results of operations. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary levels, wage rates, availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence, fluctuating fuel and energy costs, and consumer perception of economic conditions. Consumer discretionary spending, including purchases of women’s apparel, tends to decline during periods of high unemployment, which can have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We could be required to take additional markdowns in response to lower-than-anticipated levels of demand for our products, and promotional activity by our competitors could have a further adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot reliably predict the extent to which current or future economic conditions will affect our business. A prolonged continuation of reduced consumer demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women's apparel. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to quickly changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. These risks may increase as we shift a higher proportion of our product from third-party vendors and domestic sourcing to internally-designed merchandise and overseas sourcing. The increased lead times associated with overseas sourcing could increase our risk of misjudging fashion trends or styles. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we m ay be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed sales opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. This could also impact our reputation with our customers, which could diminish brand loyalty. Existing and increased competition in the women's retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets may reduce our net revenues, profits, and market share. The women’s specialty retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog retailers, and internet-based retailers. As a result of this competition we are required to effectively market and competitively price our products to consumers in diverse markets, and we typically experience pricing pressures, which may require us to incur increased marketing expenditures, and could lead to loss of market share. Existing and increased competition could result in reduced sales and margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are merchandise style, size, selection, fit, quality, display, price, attractive website layout, efficient fulfillment of website mail orders, and personalized service to our customers, as well as store location, design, advertising, and promotion. Other women’s apparel and direct-to-consumer companies with greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, or brand recognition may enter the plus-size business and may be able to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, implement more aggressive pricing policies, introduce new products more quickly, and respond and adapt to future economic downturns more effectively. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competit ors. 9 Table of Contents Our business plan is largely dependent upon continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. Our business is primarily focused on sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which represents a majority of our total net sales. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by a lack of continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and our management teams and our ability to attract, hire, and retain officers and management. We also must motivate employees to remain focused on our strategies and goals, particularly during a period of changing executive leadership at both our corporate level and our operating division level. If we cannot hire and retain effective management, we may be unable to compete effectively with other retailers. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. We may be unable to successfully execute on our business plans. We cannot assure the successful execution and the realization of the benefits of our business plans, which may vary materially based on various factors. Recent additions to our management and our effort to improve our competitive position and results of operations are based on certain assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Our business plans are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change over time, and we may not achieve the desired results. Improving our operating margins is dependent on our ability to successfully control our operating costs. In order to improve our operating margins we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, occupancy costs, transportation costs, or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, could decrease our operating margins and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our operations at a reasonable cost. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our turnaround programs. Certain key raw materials in our products, such as cotton, wool, and synthetic fabrics, are subject to availability constraints and price volatility. An increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of such raw materials could adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state and Federal laws and regulations governing such matters as minimum wages, exempt status classification, overtime, and employee benefits. Changes in Federal or state laws or regulations regarding minimum wages, unionization, or other employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefit costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital financing on terms acceptable to us. Our business requires substantial investment in our inventory for several months before sales of that inventory occur. Consequently, we require significant amounts of working capital financing. We depend on the availability of credit to fund our working capital, including credit we receive from our bankers, our factors, our suppliers and their agents, and on our ongoing payments from our strategic alliance related to private-label credit card sales. If we or our vendors are unable to obtain sufficient financing at an affordable cost, our ability to merchandise our retail stores or e-commerce businesses could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will realize the expected benefits from our private-label credit card programs. We cannot assure that we will realize the expected benefits from the private-label credit card operating agreements with Alliance Data. A significant portion of our sales revenues is generated through our private-label credit cards. Therefore, changes in the private-label credit card programs that adversely impact our ability to facilitate customer credit may adversely impact our results of operations. Alliance Data has discretion over certain policies and arrangements with the cardholders and may change these policies and arrangements in ways that could affect our relationship with the cardholders. Any such changes could adversely affect our private-label credit card sales and our results of operations. Our ability to continue to offer private-label credit card programs to our cu stomers will depend on the success of our strategic alliance with Alliance Data. Credit card operations are subject to numerous Federal and state laws, including, in particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law on July 21, 2010, that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing, and enforcement of credit accounts, and limitations on the amount of finance charges and fees that may be charged by a credit card provider. Alliance Data may be subject to regulations to which we were not subject prior to the sale of the proprietary credit card receivables programs. To the extent that such limitations or regulations materially limit the availability of credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders or negatively impact provisions which affect our revenue streams associated with the private-label credit card operating a greements, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in credit card use, payment patterns, or default rates could be affected by a variety of economic, legal, social, or other factors over which we have no control and cannot predict with certainty. Such changes could also negatively impact the availability of credit or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders or negatively impact provisions that affect our revenue streams associated with the operating agreements. Our operating results fluctuate from season to season. Our retail store and direct-to-consumer operations experience seasonal fluctuations in net sales and consequently in operating income, with peak sales typically occurring during the Easter, Labor Day, and December holiday seasons for our Retail Stores segment and in the December holiday season for our Direct-to-Consumer segment. In addition, extreme or unseasonable weather can affect our sales. Any decrease in net sales or margins during our peak selling periods, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months before these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, including perishable products for our FIGI’S food and gifts operations, before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operating results are dependent in part on our ability to effectively manage our inventory levels. We must maintain the right mix and level of inventory to operate our business successfully. Excess inventory creates pricing pressures, while insufficient inventory could lead to decreased sales and a loss of customers. We continually evaluate the market and the mood of our customers to determine our optimal inventory levels. If we do not correctly anticipate the demand for one or more of our products or delay placing seasonal inventory in our stores for too long, our results of operations and business could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced. Certain of our business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include payroll processing, credit card authorization and processing, our e-commerce platform, and certain other information technology functions. Although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. The failure of such third parties to provide adequate services could adversely affect our customers’ shopping experience, our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down. We operate distribution and fulfillment centers in Greencastle, Indiana; White Marsh, Maryland; Marshfield, Wisconsin; Stevens Point, Wisconsin; and Neillsville, Wisconsin and use a third-party fulfillment center in Indianapolis, Indiana that services our e-commerce operations. In addition, we use third-party freight consolidators and service providers in Los Angeles, California and North Bergen, New Jersey. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped either directly or via freight consolidators to our distribution and fulfillment centers. If any of our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, or freight consolidators were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other locations may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution demands, in part becaus e of capacity constraints and in part because not all brands are supported at each location. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the affected distribution center, fulfillment center, or freight consolidator. Should the third-party fulfillment center that services our e-commerce operations cease providing fulfillment services the resultant failure to deliver e-commerce orders promptly could adversely affect our e-commerce operations and our results of operations. Natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict on the United States or international economies could negatively affect our ability to obtain merchandise for sale. A significant portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States and we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our net sales and profit margins may be adversely impacted. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, freight consolidators, stores, or our direct-to-consumer customers. As a result of the occ urrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster or acts of terrorism in the United States we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage customer service or fulfillment for our e-commerce websites could adversely impact our results of operations. Successful operation of our e-commerce websites and our catalog business is dependent on our ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted customer service and fulfillment operations. Inadequate systems capacity, a disruption or slowdown in telecommunications services, changes in technology, changes in government regulations, systems issues, security breaches, or customer privacy issues could result in reduced sales or increases in operating expenses as a result of our efforts or our inability to remedy such issues. 12 Table of Contents We rely on foreign sources of production. We purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad. Such risks include (but are not necessarily limited to): ● political instability; ● increased security requirements applicable to imported goods; ● trade restrictions; ● imposition of or changes in duties, quotas, taxes, and other charges on imports; ● currency and exchange risks; ● issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; ● inability of our vendors to manufacture or deliver merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards; ● increased lead times; ● delays in shipping; or ● increased costs of transportation. New governmental requirements could be proposed that would have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and could include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. Our purchasing patterns are dictated by our seasonal inventory requirements. We typically enter into purchase commitments with our vendors for seasonal inventories up to six months ahead of when we take delivery of those products. All of our purchase commitments with foreign vendors are denominated in U.S. dollars and are settled in U.S. dollars. These arrangements provide a natural hedge to the impacts of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies during the period from when we enter into purchase commitments with our vendors to when we take delivery of the products in the countries from which we source our products. However, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies can impact the negotiated pricing for products when comparing one seasonal buying period to another. We have a network of countries and vendors from which we can source, but a weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to those foreign currencies could increase the cost of our foreign-sourced products. The future performance of our business depends on our foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, which are beyond our control. Issues of global workplace conditions may adversely affect our business. If any one of our manufacturers or vendors fails to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, is perceived by the public as failing to meet certain United States labor standards, or employs unfair labor practices, our business could be adversely affected. Current global workplace concerns of the public include wages, working conditions, age of employees, and various other employment standards. These globalization issues may affect the available supply of certain manufacturers' products, which may result in increased costs to us. Furthermore, a negative customer perception of any of our key vendors or their products may result in a lower customer demand for our apparel. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Our trademarks and servicemarks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and servicemarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and servicemarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, servicemarks, or proprietary rights. Other retailers have been subject to unauthorized imitation, and imitation of our names, concepts, store designs, or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our image c ould adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may be subject to litigation and other regulatory proceedings that may negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and regulatory actions relating to our business. We may also become subject to litigation trends, such as class-action suits brought under various consumer protection and employment laws or resulting from sales or acquisitions of business operations. The initiation or defense of litigation or regulatory actions requires us to make certain expenditures and can divert the attention of our management away from operating our business. In addition, an unfavorable decision or outcome could result in further, potentially significant, expenditures. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below for a discussion of current legal proceedings we are involved with. We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations for our Retail Stores segment. Our long-term growth plan for our Retail Stores segment depends on our ability to open and profitably operate new retail stores, to convert, where applicable, the formats of existing stores on a profitable basis, and to continue to expand our outlet distribution channel. In addition, we will need to identify, hire, and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our stores. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores, or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations. We cannot assure that desirable store locations will continue to be available. In addition, the timely opening of new store locations could be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals, lack of availability of construction materials and labor, or work stoppages. Our ability to acquire or maintain desirable store locations could be adversely affected by financial difficulties encountered by strip shopping center or mall landlords or by competition with other retailers for prime locations. 14 Table of Contents Acquisition of additional store locations and our ability to profitably operate existing store locations are dependent on our ability to successfully negotiate lease terms for such locations. Our ability to operate successfully is dependent upon our ability to develop and maintain good relationships with our landlords. Consolidation in the commercial retail real estate industry could limit our future ability to negotiate favorable rental terms for new or existing store locations or to close under-performing stores on favorable terms. Should a significant consolidation occur, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to the significant leverage they would possess. If we are unab le to negotiate favorable rental terms with these entities and are therefore unable to profitably operate our existing stores, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire or divest businesses or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, which may materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses and may decide to buy or sell businesses or enter into joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Significant acquisitions and alliances may increase demands on management by diverting their attention away from running our core business, as well as on financial resources, information systems, and internal control systems. Our success with respect to acquisitions and alliances will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses and alliances with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve, and expand our systems, procedures, and controls. In addition, we may divest existing businesses, which would cause a decline in revenues and may cause our financial results to be more volatile. A divestit ure could also negatively affect the price of our common stock and could increase our reliance on growth in our remaining core business operations. If we fail to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully or to manage the risks associated with divestitures, joint ventures, or other alliances, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. OTHER RISKS Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a change in control, such as provisions that: ● do not permit cumulative voting; ● permit our board to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● require certain advance notice procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations by or at the direction of our board; ● prevent our directors from being removed without cause except upon super-majority shareholder approval; and ● prevent a holder of 20% or more of our common stock from taking certain actions without certain approvals. 15 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 we are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a possible loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Such a failure could result in our inability to provide timely and/or reliable financial information and could adversely affect our business. We could be required to repurchase our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 for cash prior to maturity of the notes. The holders of the outstanding principal amount of our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 (the “1.125% Notes”) could require us to repurchase the principal amount of the notes for cash before maturity upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” as defined in the prospectus filed in connection with the 1.125% Notes (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; NOTE 7. LONG-TERM DEBT” below). Such a repurchase would require significant amounts of cash, would be subject to important limitat ions on our ability to repurchase, such as the risk of our inability to obtain funds for such repurchase, and could adversely affect our financial condition. New accounting rules or regulations or changes in existing rules or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or the adoption of new rules could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition, which could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Changes in estimates related to our evaluation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets for impairment could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We make certain significant assumptions, estimates, and projections related to the useful lives and valuation of our property, plant, and equipment and the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. The carrying amount and/or useful life of these assets are subject to periodic and/or annual valuation tests for impairment. Impairment results when the carrying value of an asset exceeds the undiscounted (or for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets the discounted) future cash flows associated with the asset. If actual experience were to differ materially from the assumptions, estimates, and projections used to determine useful lives or the valuation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets, a write-down for impairment of the carrying value of the assets, or acceleration of depreciation or amortization of the assets, could result. Such a write-down or acceleration of depreciation or amortization could have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 