Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this annual report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference into this report, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our plans, projections, or other forward-looking statements included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could also materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict rapidly changing fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly, particularly for women's apparel. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to quickly changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed sales opportunities. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Existing and increased competition in the women's retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets may reduce our net revenues, profits, and market share. The women's specialty retail apparel and direct-to-consumer markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include individual and chain fashion specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog retailers, and Internet-based retailers. As a result of this competition, we are required to effectively market and competitively price our products to consumers in diverse markets, and we may experience pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures, and loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are merchandise style, size, selection, fit, quality, display, price, attractive website/catalog layout, efficient fulfillment of website and catalog mail orders, and personalized service to our customers, as well as store location, design, advertising, and promotion. Other women's apparel and direct-to-consumer companies with greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, or brand recognition may enter the plus-size business. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. During Fiscal 2008 we made certain changes in our management as part of an effort to improve our competitive position. We cannot assure that these changes in management will achieve an improvement in our competitive position. 13 Table of Contents A slowdown in the United States economy, an uncertain economic outlook, and escalating energy costs could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products in the future. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary levels, wage rates, availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the United States economy, an uncertain economic outlook, and escalating energy costs have adversely affected consumer spending habits and customer traffic, which has resulted in a reduction in our net sales. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maintaining and improving our operating margins are dependent on our ability to successfully control our operating costs. In order to maintain or improve our operating margins we need to successfully manage our operating costs. Our inability to successfully manage labor costs, increases in certain costs vital to catalog operations, such as postage, paper, and acquisition of prospects, occupancy costs, or other operating costs, or our inability to take advantage of opportunities to reduce operating costs, would adversely affect our operating margins and our results of operations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state and Federal laws and regulations governing such matters as minimum wages, exempt status classification, overtime, and employee benefits. Changes in Federal or state laws or regulations regarding minimum wages or other employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefit costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our operations at a reasonable cost. During Fiscal 2008 we began the implementation of our plan for the consolidation of operations and a new organizational structure at our CATHERINES brand. In February 2008 we announced additional initiatives and actions designed to: streamline our business operations and further sharpen our focus on our core businesses, including the closing of our full-line PETITE SOPHISTICATE stores; reduce operating expenses and capital expenditures; improve cash flow; and enhance shareholder value. We cannot assure the realization of our anticipated annualized expense savings or other benefits from the implementation of these plans. We may not be able to obtain sufficient working capital financing. Our business requires substantial investment in our inventory for a long period before sales of that inventory occur. Consequently, we require significant amounts of working capital financing. We depend on the availability of credit to fund our working capital, including credit we receive from our suppliers and their agents, on our credit card securitization program, and on our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing at an affordable cost, we might be unable to adequately merchandise our stores, E-commerce, or catalog businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have traditionally relied upon the securitization market to finance our proprietary credit card receivables. The current disruption in the securitization market caused by, among other things, an increased default rate on residential mortgage loans, an increase in the number of rating downgrades with respect to bonds issued in connection with the securitization of loans, the lack of liquidity in the bond market, and the financial condition of many companies that typically participate in this market may negatively affect our ability to enter into financing arrangements on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. An inability to enter into a favorable securitization series or satisfactory alternative financing arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate from season to season. Our retail store and direct-to-consumer operations experience seasonal fluctuations in net sales and consequently in operating income, with peak sales typically occurring during the Easter, Labor Day, and December holiday seasons. In addition, extreme or unseasonable weather can affect our sales. Any decrease in net sales or margins during our peak selling periods, or in the availability of working capital needed in the months before these periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, including perishable products for our FIGI’S food and gift catalog, before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face challenges in managing our recent growth. Our operating challenges and management responsibilities are increasing as we continue to grow and expand into new store formats and additional distribution channels. Successful growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our internal systems and our operations, including our distribution infrastructure. Our growth plan for our Retail Stores segment depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores and to convert, where applicable, the formats of existing stores on a profitable basis. In addition, we will need to identify, hire, and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our stores. During Fiscal 2007 we entered the outlet distribution channel and in Fiscal 2008 we expanded the number of stores in this channel. During Fiscal 2008 we also expanded the number of stores using a double-store-front format. In addition, we re-launched our LANE BRYANT credit card program and related loyalty card program during Fiscal 2008. During Fiscal 2008 the LANE BRYANT catalog trademark, which was licensed to a third party, reverted to us and we launched our LANE BRYANT WOMAN catalog and a related website. Growth in our Direct-to-Consumer segment is dependent on sufficient response rates to our catalogs and Internet websites and access to new customers, which may not occur. These objectives have created, and may continue to create, additional demands on our staff and on our operating systems. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our business plan for our Retail Stores and Direct-to-Consumer segments, or that we will achieve our objectives as quickly or as effectively as we hope. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to execute our business strategy depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Dorrit J. Bern, and her management team. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. 15 Table of Contents Our business plan is largely dependent upon continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. Our business is primarily focused on sales of plus-size women’s apparel, which represents a majority of our total net sales. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a lack of continued growth in the plus-size women’s apparel market. We could be materially and adversely affected if any of our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down. We operate distribution centers in Greencastle, Indiana, and Baltimore County, Maryland, and we operate catalog fulfillment centers in Tucson, Arizona; Marshfield, Wisconsin; Stevens Point, Wisconsin; and Wilmington, North Carolina. In addition, we use third-party freight consolidators and service providers in Indianapolis, Indiana; Abingdon, Maryland; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; and North Bergen, New Jersey. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution and fulfillment centers or freight consolidators where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores or to the customer. If any of our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, or freight consolidators were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, the other locations may not be able to adequately support the resulting additional distribution demands, in part because of capacity constraints and in part because each location services a particular brand or brands. As a result, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace the affected distribution center, fulfillment center, or freight consolidator. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism or other armed conflict on the United States or international economies may negatively impact the availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. The occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster, war, acts of terrorism, or other armed conflict could negatively affect our ability to obtain merchandise for sale in our stores or through our direct-to-consumer business. A significant portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States and we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our net sales and profit margins may be adversely impacted. If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers, fulfillment centers, freight consolidators, stores, or our direct-to-consumer customers. As a result of the occurrence of, or threat of, a natural disaster or acts of terrorism in the United States we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage customer service or fulfillment for our E-commerce websites or our catalog business could adversely impact our operating results. Successful management of our E-commerce and catalog operations is dependent on our ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted customer service and order fulfillment. Inadequate systems capacity, a disruption or slowdown in telecommunications services, changes in technology, changes in government regulations, systems issues, security breaches, a failure to integrate order management systems, or customer privacy issues could result in reduced sales or increases in operating expenses as a result of our efforts or our inability to remedy such issues. In addition, we may not be able to hire sufficient qualified associates to support our E-commerce or catalog operations during peak periods, especially during the December holiday season. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our E-commerce or catalog businesses. 16 Table of Contents We rely on foreign sources of production. We purchase a significant portion of our apparel directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad. Such risks include (but are not necessarily limited to): ● political instability; ● increased security requirements applicable to imported goods; ● trade restrictions; ● imposition of or changes in duties, quotas, taxes, and other charges on imports; ● currency and exchange risks; ● issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; ● concerns over anti-dumping; ● delays in shipping; or ● increased costs of transportation. New requirements could be proposed that would have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and could include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries. In addition, the decreased value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies has increased the cost of products that we purchase from foreign markets and additional weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to those foreign currencies will further increase our costs. The future performance of our business will depend on our foreign suppliers and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, which are beyond our control. Issues of global workplace conditions may adversely affect our business. If any one of our manufacturers or vendors fails to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, is perceived by the public as failing to meet certain labor standards in the United States, or employs unfair labor practices, our business could be adversely affected. Current global workplace concerns of the public include perceived low wages, poor working conditions, age of employees, and various other employment standards. These globalization issues may affect the available supply of certain manufacturers' products, which may result in increased costs to us. Furthermore, a negative customer perception of any of our key vendors or their products may result in a lower customer demand for our apparel. We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations for our Retail Stores segment. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of strip shopping center and mall traffic. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor stores, or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. To take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations. We cannot assure that desirable store locations will continue to be available. Acquisition of additional store locations is also dependent on our ability to successfully negotiate lease terms for such locations. In addition, the timely opening of new store locations could be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary permits and approvals, lack of availability of construction materials and labor, or work stoppages. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and servicemarks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and servicemarks on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and servicemarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, servicemarks, or proprietary rights. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may acquire or divest businesses or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, which may materially affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses and may decide to buy or sell businesses or enter into joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Significant acquisitions and alliances may increase demands on management, financial resources, and information and internal control systems. Our success with respect to acquisitions and alliances will depend, in part, on our ability to manage and integrate acquired businesses and alliances with our existing businesses and to successfully implement, improve, and expand our systems, procedures, and controls. In addition, we may divest existing businesses, which would cause a decline in revenues and may make our financial results more volatile. If we fail to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully or to manage the risks associated with divestitures, joint ventures, or other alliances, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. OTHER RISKS Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Pennsylvania law may discourage other companies from attempting to acquire us. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Pennsylvania law may discourage some transactions where we would otherwise experience a change in control. For example, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: ● classify our board into three classes, with one class being elected each year; ● do not permit cumulative voting; ● permit our board to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● require certain advance notice procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations by or at the direction of our board; ● prohibit us from engaging in some types of business combinations with a holder of 10% or more of our voting securities without super-majority shareholder or board approval; ● prevent our directors from being removed without cause except upon super-majority shareholder approval; and ● prevent a holder of 20% or more of our common stock from taking certain actions without certain approvals. 18 Table of Contents We also have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan. This plan may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for such stock and, accordingly, may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock in connection with any such transaction. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 we are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a possible loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Such a failure could result in our inability to provide timely and/or reliable financial information and could adversely affect our business. We could be required to repurchase our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 for cash prior to maturity of the notes. During Fiscal 2008 we issued $275.0 million principal amount of 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 1, 2014 (the “1.125% Notes”) in a private offering for resale to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under The Securities Act of 1933. The holders of the 1.125% Notes could require us to repurchase the principal amount of the notes for cash before maturity of the notes under certain circumstances (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; NOTE 8. LONG-TERM DEBT” below). Such a repurchase would require significant amounts of cash and could adversely affect our financial condition. New accounting rules or regulations or changes in existing rules or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or the adoption of new rules could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued a proposed FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) that, if adopted, would apply to any convertible debt instrument that may be settled in whole or in part with cash upon conversion, which would include our 1.125% Senior Convertible Notes due May 2014. If the proposed FSP is approved in 2008 we would be required to adopt the proposal as of February 3, 2009 (the beginning of Fiscal 2010), with retrospective application to financial statements for periods prior to the date of adoption. As compared to our current accounting for the 1.125% Notes, adoption of the proposal would reduce long-term debt, increase stockholders’ equity, and reduce net income and earnings per share. Adoption of the proposal would not affect our cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Changes in estimates related to our evaluation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets for impairment could adversely affect our reported results of operations. We make certain significant assumptions, estimates, and projections related to the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment and the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions. The carrying amount and/or useful life of these assets are subject to periodic valuation tests for impairment. Impairment results when the carrying value of an asset exceeds the undiscounted (or for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets the discounted) future cash flows associated with the asset. If actual experience were to differ materially from the assumptions, estimates, and projections used to determine useful lives or the valuation of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets, a write-down for impairment of the carrying value of the assets, or acceleration of depreciation or amortization of the assets, could result. Such a write-down or acceleration of depreciation or amortization could have an adverse impact on our reported results of operations. During Fiscal 2008 we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $86.8 million related to our Crosstown Traders goodwill and $11.4 million related to our Crosstown Traders trademarks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 