Item 1A. Risk Factors Reliance on Customer Contracts—The Company’s inability to renew, extend or replace expiring or terminated contracts could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, profitability and financial condition. Substantially all of the Company’s net revenue is derived from contracts that may be terminated immediately with cause and many, including some of the Company’s most significant contracts, are terminable without cause by the customer upon notice and the passage of a specified period of time (typically between 60 and 180 days), or upon the occurrence of certain other specified events. The Company’s ten largest customers accounted for 74.0 percent and 74.9 percent of the Company’s net revenue in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Loss of all of these contracts or customers would, and loss of any one of these contracts or customers could, materially reduce the Company’s net revenue and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, profitability and financial condition. Managed Behavioral Healthcare The Company’s contracts with TennCare and with subsidiaries of WellPoint each generated revenues that exceeded, in the aggregate, ten percent of managed behavioral healthcare net revenues, as well as revenues for the consolidated Company, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. Total revenue from the Company’s contracts with WellPoint was $202.2 million and $200.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Included in the revenue amount for the year ended December 31, 2006 is revenue of $12.6 million from contracts NIA has with WellPoint (see Note 3—“Acquisitions and Joint Ventures” to the consolidated financial statements set for the elsewhere herein for discussion of the Company’s acquisition of NIA). On September 6, 2006, the Company announced that it was notified by WellPoint of its intent to terminate its contract with the Company for the management of behavioral healthcare services for its commercial members in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio (the “Midwest contract”), effective March 31, 2007. The Midwest contract had been set to expire on December 31, 2007; however, WellPoint notified the Company of its intent to exercise its right under the Midwest contract to terminate without cause with six months’ notice. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Midwest contract generated revenue of $100.4 million. The Company has two other managed behavioral healthcare contracts with WellPoint that generated revenue of $87.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Each of these contracts has a term expiring on December 31, 2007, neither contract has an early termination provision similar to that contained in the Midwest contract and the Company has not received notice of a change in the status of these contracts. The contracts with respect to the management of radiology benefits through the 18 Company’s NIA subsidiary are unrelated to and unaffected by WellPoint’s decision regarding behavioral healthcare management for the Midwest contract. The Company provides managed behavioral healthcare services for TennCare, through contracts held by two of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries. TennCare has divided its program into three regions, and the Company’s TennCare contracts, which extend through September 30, 2007, currently encompass all of the TennCare membership for all three regions. The Company recorded revenue of $432.7 million and $416.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, from its TennCare contracts. On April 7, 2006, TennCare issued a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) for the management of the integrated delivery of behavioral and physical medical care to TennCare enrollees in the Middle region by managed care organizations. On July 26, 2006, TennCare announced the two winning bidders to the RFP process, neither of which had partnered with the Company, and a start date of April 1, 2007 at which time the Company’s contracts with TennCare will be amended to remove the Middle region enrollees. For the year ended December 31, 2006, revenue derived from TennCare enrollees residing in the Middle region amounted to $152.0 million. The Company recorded net revenue from Aetna, Inc. (“Aetna”) of $245.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, which represented in excess of ten percent of the managed behavioral healthcare net revenues of the Company for that period. The Company’s contract with Aetna terminated on December 31, 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized $6.2 million of revenue related to the performance of one-time, transitional activities associated with the contract termination. Radiology Benefits Management and Specialty Pharmaceutical Management Included in the Company’s Radiology Benefits Management line of business are three customers that each exceeded 10 percent of the net revenues for this line of business for the year ended December 31, 2006. The three customers generated $12.6 million, $5.2 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of the net revenues for Radiology Benefits Management for the year ended December 31, 2006. The second customer discussed above has contracts with the Company for three geographical markets, and such customer has informed the Company that the contracts for two of these markets, which generated revenue of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, will terminate effective December 31, 2006. Included in the Company’s Specialty Pharmaceutical Management line of business are three customers that each exceeded 10 percent of the net revenues for this line of business for the year ended December 31, 2006. The three customers generated $24.8 million, $11.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively, of the net revenues for Specialty Pharmaceutical Management for the year ended December 31, 2006. Integration of Companies Acquired by Magellan—The Company’s profitability could be adversely affected if the integration of companies acquired by Magellan, including NIA and ICORE, is not completed in a timely and effective manner. As previously discussed, one of the Company’s growth strategies is to make strategic acquisitions which are complementary to its existing operations. NIA and ICORE are the first such acquisitions completed by the Company. After Magellan closes on an acquisition, it must integrate the acquired company into Magellan’s polices, procedures and systems. Failure to effectively integrate an acquired business could result in excessive costs being incurred (i.e. a delay in obtaining targeted synergies), decreased customer performance (which could result in contract penalties and/or terminations), increased employee turnover, and lost sales opportunities. 19 Changes in the Medical Managed Care Industry—Certain changes in the business practices of this industry could negatively impact the Company’s resources, profitability and results of operations. Substantially all of the Company’s Health Plan, Radiology Benefits Management and Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment net revenue is derived from customers in the medical managed care industry, including managed care companies, health insurers and other health plans. Some types of changes in this industry’s business practices could negatively impact the Company. For example, if the Company’s managed care customers seek to provide services directly to their subscribers, instead of contracting with the Company for such services, the Company could be adversely affected. In this regard and as previously noted, Aetna and WellPoint had decided to provide managed behavioral services directly to some or all of their subscribers, which resulted in the December 31, 2005 termination of the Aetna contract, and the proposed March 31, 2007 termination of the WellPoint Midwest contract. In addition to Aetna and WellPoint, other managed care customers of the Company did not renew all or part of their contracts with the Company during 2006, and will instead provide managed behavioral healthcare services directly to their subscribers. Other of the Company’s customers that are managed care companies could also seek to provide services directly to their subscribers, rather than by contracting with the Company for such services. In addition, the Company has a significant number of contracts with Blue Cross Blue Shield plans and other regional health plans. Consolidation of the healthcare industry through acquisitions and mergers could potentially result in the loss of contracts for the Company. Any of these changes could reduce the Company’s net revenue, and adversely affect the Company’s profitability and financial condition. Changes in the Contracting Model for Medicaid Contracts—Certain changes in the contracting model used by states for managed healthcare services contracts relating to Medicaid lives could negatively impact the Company’s resources, profitability and results of operations. Substantially all of the Company’s Public Sector segment net revenue is derived from direct contracts that it has with state or county governments for the provision of services to Medicaid enrollees. In addition to TennCare discussed above, certain other states have recently contracted with managed care companies to manage both the behavioral and physical medical care of its Medicaid enrollees. If other governmental entities change the method for contracting for Medicaid business to a fully integrated model, the Company will attempt to subcontract with the managed care organizations to provide behavioral healthcare management for such Medicaid business; however, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to secure such arrangements. Accordingly, if such a change in the contracting model were to occur, it is possible that the Company could lose current contracted revenues, as well as be unable to bid on potential new business opportunities, thus negatively impacting the Company’s profitability and financial condition. Risk-Based Products—Because the Company provides services at a fixed fee, if the Company is unable to accurately predict and control healthcare costs, the Company’s profitability could decline. The Company derives its net revenue primarily from arrangements under which the Company assumes responsibility for costs of treatment services (excluding at present the cost of pharmaceuticals or other medication) in exchange for a fixed fee. The Company refers to such arrangements as ‘‘risk-based contracts’’ or ‘‘risk-based products,’’ which includes EAP services. These arrangements provided 82.8 percent and 85.3 percent of the Company’s net revenue in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Furthermore, with respect to radiology benefits management, the Company believes that it is positioned to accelerate the growth of NIA by expanding NIA’s current product offering into risk-based products. The Company believes that it can leverage its information systems, call center, claims and network infrastructure as well as its financial strength and underwriting expertise to facilitate the development of a risk-based RBM product offering. In December 2006, the Company announced that it had entered into its first risk-based contract, which will begin in 2007. 20 Profitability of the Company’s risk contracts could be reduced if the Company is unable to accurately estimate the rate of service utilization by members or the cost of such services when the Company prices its services. The Company’s assumptions of these costs when the Company prices its services may not ultimately reflect actual utilization rates and costs, many aspects of which are beyond the Company’s control. If the cost of services provided to members under a contract together with the administrative costs exceeds the aggregate fees received by the Company under such contract, the Company will incur a loss on the contract. The Company’s profitability could also be reduced if the Company is required to make adjustments to estimates made in reporting historical financial results, particularly those regarding cost of care, reflected in the Company’s financial statements as medical claims payable. Medical claims payable includes reserves for incurred but not reported (‘‘IBNR’’) claims, which are claims for covered services rendered by the Company’s providers which have not yet been submitted to the Company for payment. The Company estimates and reserves for IBNR claims based on past claims payment experience, including the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date the claims are received and between the date services are rendered and the date claims are paid, enrollment data, utilization statistics, adjudication decisions, authorized healthcare services and other factors. This data is incorporated into contract-specific reserve models. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. Neither the Company nor NIA currently possesses any experience related to underwriting risk-based RBM products. If such risk-based RBM products are not correctly underwritten, the Company’s profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Factors that affect the Company’s ability to price the Company’s services, control the Company’s costs or accurately make estimates of IBNR claims and other expenses for which the Company creates reserves may include changes in the Company’s assumptions for medical costs caused by changes in actual experience including: · changes in the delivery system; · changes in utilization patterns; · changes in the number of members seeking treatment; · unforeseen fluctuations in claims backlogs; · increases in the costs of the services; · the occurrence of catastrophes; · regulatory changes; · changes in benefit plan design; and · implementation of new products by the Company If the Company’s membership in risk-based business continues to grow (which is a major focus of the Company’s strategy), the Company’s exposure to potential losses from risk-based products will also increase. Fluctuation in Operating Results—The Company experiences fluctuations in quarterly operating results and, as a consequence, the Company may fail to meet or exceed market expectations, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. The Company’s quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to seasonal and other factors, including: · changes in utilization levels by enrolled members of the Company’s risk-based contracts, including seasonal utilization patterns (for example, members generally tend to seek services less during the third and fourth quarters of the year than in the first and second quarters of the year); 21 · performance-based contractual adjustments to net revenue, reflecting utilization results or other performance measures; · changes in estimates for contractual adjustments under commercial contracts; · retrospective membership adjustments; · the timing of implementation of new contracts and enrollment changes; and · changes in estimates regarding medical costs and IBNR claims. These factors may affect the Company’s quarterly and annual net revenue, expenses and profitability in the future and, accordingly, the Company may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. Dependence on Government Spending—The Company can be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local healthcare policies. All of the Company’s Public Sector segment net revenue and a portion of the Company’s net revenue in the Company’s other two managed behavioral healthcare segments, and the Radiology Benefits Management segment and the Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment are derived, directly or indirectly, from governmental agencies, including state Medicaid programs. Contract rates vary from state to state, are subject to periodic negotiation and may limit the Company’s ability to maintain or increase rates. The Company is unable to predict the impact on the Company’s operations of future regulations or legislation affecting Medicaid programs, or the healthcare industry in general, and future regulations or legislation may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, any reduction in government spending for such programs could also have a material adverse effect on the Company (See “Reliance on Customer Contracts”). In addition, the Company’s contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, generally are conditioned upon financial appropriations by one or more governmental agencies, especially in the case of state Medicaid programs. These contracts generally can be terminated or modified by the customer if such appropriations are not made. Finally, some of the Company’s contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, require the Company to perform additional services if federal, state or local laws or regulations imposed after the contract is signed so require, in exchange for additional compensation to be negotiated by the parties in good faith. Government and other third-party payors generally seek to impose lower contract rates and to renegotiate reduced contract rates with service providers in a trend toward cost control. Restrictive Covenants in the Company’s Debt Instruments—Restrictions imposed by the Company’s debt agreements limit the Company’s operating and financial flexibility. These restrictions may adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance the Company’s future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s interest. The Company’s credit agreement with Deutsche Bank dated January 5, 2004, as amended (the ‘‘Credit Agreement’’), contains a number of covenants. These covenants limit Company management’s discretion in operating the Company’s business by restricting or limiting the Company’s ability, among other things, to: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred or redeemable stock; · pay dividends and make other distributions; · repurchase equity interests; · make certain advances, investments and loans; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; 22 · create liens; · sell and otherwise dispose of assets; · acquire or merge or consolidate with another company; and · enter into some types of transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s interest. The Credit Agreement also requires the Company to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to do so, unless waived by the lenders under the Credit Agreement, pursuant to its terms, would result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by most of the Company’s subsidiaries and is secured by most of the Company’s assets and the Company’s subsidiaries’ assets. Required Assurances of Financial Resources—The Company’s liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability can be adversely affected by present or future state regulations and contractual requirements that the Company provide financial assurance of the Company’s ability to meet the Company’s obligations. Some of the Company’s contracts and certain state regulations require the Company or certain of the Company’s subsidiaries to maintain specified cash reserves or letters of credit and/or to maintain certain minimum tangible net equity in certain of the Company’s subsidiaries as assurance that the Company has financial resources to meet the Company’s contractual obligations. Many of these state regulations also restrict the investment activity of certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. Some state regulations also restrict the ability of certain of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends to Magellan. Additional state regulations could be promulgated that would increase the cash or other security the Company would be required to maintain. In addition, the Company’s customers may require additional restricted cash or other security with respect to the Company’s obligations under the Company’s contracts, including the Company’s obligation to pay IBNR claims and other medical claims not yet processed and paid. In addition, certain of the Company’s contracts and state regulations limit the profits that the Company may earn on risk-based business. The Company’s liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability could be adversely affected by the effects of such regulations and contractual provisions. See Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Restricted Assets” to the consolidated financial statements set forth elsewhere herein for a discussion of the Company’s restricted assets. Competition—The competitive environment in the specialty managed healthcare industry may limit the Company’s ability to maintain or increase the Company’s rates, which would limit or adversely affect the Company’s profitability, and any failure in the Company’s ability to respond adequately may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain contracts or obtain new contracts. The Company’s business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other healthcare organizations as well as with insurance companies, including HMOs, PPOs, TPAs, IPAs, multi-disciplinary medical groups, PBMs and other specialty healthcare and managed care companies. Many of the Company’s competitors, particularly certain insurance companies, HMOs and PBMs are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company, which can create downward pressure on prices through economies of scale. The entrance or expansion of these larger companies in the specialty managed healthcare industry (including the Company’s customers who have insourced or who may choose to insource healthcare services) could increase the competitive pressures the Company faces and could limit the Company’s ability to maintain or increase the Company’s rates. If this happens, the Company’s profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if the Company does not adequately respond to these competitive pressures, it could cause the Company to not be able to maintain its current contracts or to not be able to obtain new contracts. 23 Possible Impact of Healthcare Reform—Healthcare reform can significantly reduce the Company’s revenues or profitability. The U.S. Congress and certain state legislatures are considering legislation that, among other things, would limit healthcare plans and methods of operations, limit employers’ and healthcare plans’ ability to define medical necessity, permit employers and healthcare plans to be sued in state courts for coverage determinations, provide universal health insurance at the state level, provide for minimum medical loss ratios, and otherwise affect health care insurance and managed care. It is uncertain whether the Company could recoup, through higher revenues or other measures, the increased costs of federal or state mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by such legislation or similar legislation. Other federal or state changes in law regarding managed care or universal health insurance coverage could also have adverse consequences for the Company’s business. In addition, if any federal parity legislation is adopted and the difference in coverage limits for mental health coverage and medical health coverage is reduced or eliminated, any increase in net revenue the Company derives following such legislation may not be sufficient to cover the increase in costs that would result from a greater utilization of mental healthcare services. The Company cannot predict the effect of this legislation or other legislation that may be adopted by Congress or by the states, and such legislation, if implemented, could have an adverse effect on the Company. Government Regulation—The Company is subject to substantial government regulation and scrutiny, which increase the Company’s costs of doing business and could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The specialty managed healthcare industry and the provision of specialty managed healthcare are subject to extensive and evolving federal and state regulation. Such laws and regulations cover, but are not limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government healthcare program participation requirements, information privacy and security, reimbursement for patient services, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. The Company’s specialty pharmaceutical management business is also the subject of substantial federal and state governmental regulation and scrutiny. Government investigations and allegations have become more frequent concerning possible violations of fraud and abuse and false claims statutes and regulations by healthcare organizations. Violators may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subject to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed services. A violation of such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is subject to certain state laws and regulations and federal laws as a result of the Company’s role in management of customers’ employee benefit plans. Regulatory issues may also affect the Company’s operations including, but not limited to: · additional state licenses that may be required to conduct the Company’s businesses, including utilization review and TPA activities; · limits imposed by state authorities upon corporations’ control or excessive influence over managed healthcare services through the direct employment of physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists or other professionals, and prohibiting fee splitting; · laws that impose financial terms and requirements on the Company due to the Company’s assumption of risk under contracts with licensed insurance companies or HMOs; 24 · laws in certain states that impose an obligation to contract with any healthcare provider willing to meet the terms of the Company’s contracts with similar providers; · maintaining confidentiality of patient information · complying with HIPAA within the imposed deadlines. The imposition of additional licensing and other regulatory requirements may, among other things, increase the Company’s equity requirements, increase the cost of doing business or force significant changes in the Company’s operations to comply with these requirements. The costs associated with compliance with government regulation as discussed above may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces additional regulatory risks associated with its Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment which could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny and liability and which could adversely affect the profitability of the Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment in the future. With the Company’s acquisition of ICORE, additional federal and state regulations became applicable to the Company. Various aspects of the Company’s Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment are governed by federal and state laws and regulations not previously applicable to the Company or which may now be applicable in different ways. Significant sanctions may be imposed for violations of these laws and compliance programs are a significant operational requirement of the Company’s business. There are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to the Company. Accordingly, the Company may be required to incur additional administrative and compliance expenses in determining the applicable requirements and in adapting its compliance practices, or modifying its business practices, in order to satisfy changing interpretations and regulatory policies. In addition, there are numerous proposed health care laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company’s business. Federal Anti-Remuneration/Fraud And Abuse Laws. The federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, an entity from paying or receiving, subject to certain exceptions and “safe harbors,” any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce the referral of individuals covered by federally funded health care programs, or the purchase, or the arranging for or recommending of the purchase, of items or services for which payment may be made in whole, or in part, under Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE or other federally funded health care programs. Sanctions for violating the Anti-Kickback Statute may include imprisonment, criminal and civil fines and exclusion from participation in the federally funded health care programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted broadly by courts, the OIG within DHHS, and other administrative bodies. It also is a crime under the Public Contractor Anti-Kickback Statute, for any person to knowingly and willfully offer or provide any remuneration to a prime contractor to the United States, including a contractor servicing federally funded health programs, in order to obtain favorable treatment in a subcontract. Violators of this law also may be subject to civil monetary penalties. In April 2003, the OIG published Compliance Guidance. The Compliance Guidance is voluntary and is directly aimed at the compliance efforts of pharmaceutical manufacturers. This Compliance Guidance highlights several transactions as potential “risks,” including transactions and relationships with PBMs, some of which are similar to transactions and/or relationships that the Company enters into with its customers. As pharmaceutical manufacturers’ business practices evolve in compliance with the Compliance Guidelines, the Company’s relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers may be adversely affected. 25 Federal Statutes Prohibiting False Claims. The Federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties for knowingly making or causing to be made false claims with respect to governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, for services not rendered, or for misrepresenting actual services rendered, in order to obtain higher reimbursement. Private individuals may bring qui tam or whistle blower suits against providers under the Federal False Claims Act, which authorizes the payment of a portion of any recovery to the individual bringing suit. A few federal district courts recently have interpreted the Federal False Claims Act as applying to claims for reimbursement that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute under certain circumstances. The Federal False Claims Act generally provides for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, resulting in the possibility of substantial financial penalties for small billing errors. Criminal provisions that are similar to the Federal False Claims Act provide that a corporation may be fined if it is convicted of presenting to any federal agency a claim or making a statement that it knows to be false, fictitious or fraudulent. While the Company does not directly provide services to beneficiaries of federally funded health programs and, accordingly, does not directly submit claims to the federal government, it does provide services to federal government contractors, such as Part D Plans, and it is possible that the Company could nevertheless become involved in a situation where false claim issues are raised based on allegations that it caused or assisted a government contractor in making a false claim. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The MMA that took effect on January 1, 2006, among other things, created a new voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit for Medicare enrollees on an insured basis through PDPs, and by Medicare Advantage Plans, in various regions across the United States. Among other things, PDPs and Medicare Advantage Plans are subject to provisions of the MMA intended to deter fraud, waste and abuse and are monitored strictly by CMS and its contracted MEDICs to ensure that Part D program funds are not spent inappropriately. If CMS determines that the Company has not performed satisfactorily as a subcontractor, CMS may request a PDP or a Medicare Advantage Plan customer of the Company to revoke its Part D activities or responsibilities under the subcontract. The practices that are subject to regulation under these provisions are evolving and future applications or interpretations of these provisions could adversely affect the Company’s operations. FDA Regulation. The FDA generally has authority to regulate drug promotional materials that are disseminated “by or on behalf of” a drug manufacturer. The Company’s business includes the provision of educational seminars for prescribers and other of the Company’s customers on behalf of manufacturer clients and thus is subject to the federal laws applicable to the promotion of prescription drugs. State Anti-Remuneration/False Claims Laws. Several states have laws and/or regulations similar to the federal anti-remuneration and Federal False Claims Act described above. Sanctions for violating these state anti-remuneration and false claims laws may include injunction, imprisonment, criminal and civil fines and exclusion from participation in the state Medicaid programs. State Comprehensive PBM Regulation. States continue to introduce broad legislation to regulate PBM activities. Some of this legislation would encompass the activities of the Company. In particular, such legislation seeks to impose fiduciary duties or disclosure obligations on entities that provide certain types of pharmacy management services. Both Maine and the District of Columbia have enacted statutes imposing fiduciary obligations on entities 26 providing pharmacy management services. Regulation of this nature could adversely affect the services the Company provides its customers. State Legislation Affecting Plan Or Benefit Design. Some states have enacted legislation that prohibits certain types of managed care plan sponsors from implementing certain restrictive formulary and network design features, and many states have legislation regulating various aspects of managed care plans, including provisions relating to the pharmacy benefits. Other states mandate coverage of certain benefits or conditions and require health plan coverage of specific drugs, if deemed medically necessary by the prescribing physician. Such legislation does not generally apply to the Company directly, but may apply to certain clients of the Company, such as HMOs and health insurers. If legislation of this nature were to become widely adopted and were applied to services the Company provides, it could have the effect of limiting the economic benefits achievable by the Company’s customers through the use of the Company’s services, adversely affecting the demand for the Company’s services. Legislation Affecting Drug Prices. Under MMA, Part B drugs generally are reimbursed on an ASP methodology. This ASP methodology may create an incentive for some drug manufacturers to reduce the levels of discounts or rebates available to purchasers, including the Company, or their clients with respect to Medicare Part B drugs. The federal Medicaid rebate statute provides that pharmaceutical manufacturers of brand-name outpatient prescription drugs must provide the Medicaid program a rebate in accordance with certain requirements. Investigations have been commenced by certain government agencies which question whether Medicaid rebates were properly calculated in accordance with such requirements, reported and paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. The Company is not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments. Some pharmaceutical manufacturers may view the Medicaid rebate statute and/or the associated investigations as a disincentive to offer rebates and discounts to private parties, including in the context of the Company’s business. Regulations Affecting the Company’s Pharmacies. The Company owns two mail order pharmacies that provide services to certain of the Company’s health plan customers. The activities undertaken by the Company’s pharmacies subject the pharmacies to state and federal statutes and regulations governing, among other things, the licensure and operation of mail order and non-resident pharmacies, repackaging of drug products, stocking of prescription drug products and dispensing of prescription drug products, including controlled substances. The Company’s pharmacy facilities are located in Florida and New York and are duly licensed to conduct business in those states. Many states, however, require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with or be licensed by the state board of pharmacy or similar governing body when pharmaceuticals are delivered by mail into the state and some states require that an out-of-state pharmacy employ a pharmacist that is licensed in the state into which pharmaceuticals are shipped. Additional regulation of this nature may require the Company to expend additional funds to satisfy such regulatory requirements and could make it impractical for the Company to undertake certain business opportunities it may otherwise be interested in pursuing. Regulation of Controlled Substances. The Company’s pharmacies must register with the DEA and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. Federal law requires the Company to comply with the DEA’s security, recordkeeping, inventory control, and labeling standards in order to dispense controlled substances. State controlled substance law requires registration and compliance with state 27 pharmacy licensure, registration or permit standards promulgated by the state pharmacy licensing authority. Some of the state regulatory requirements described above may be preempted in whole or in part by ERISA, which provides for comprehensive federal regulation of employee benefit plans. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings. As a result, the Company could be subject to overlapping federal and state regulatory requirements in respect of certain of its operations and may need to implement compliance programs that satisfy multiple regulatory regimes. Other. Most of the Company’s distribution contracts with its customers use AWP as a benchmark for establishing pricing. As part of a proposed settlement in the case of New England Carpenters Health Benefit Fund, et. al. v. First Data Bank, et. al., Civil Action No. 1:05-CV-11148-PBS (D. Mass.), a case brought against First Data Bank, one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, First Data Bank has agreed to reduce the AWP of over 8,000 specific pharmaceutical products by four percent. The proposed settlement has received preliminary but not final approval of the court, and the Company cannot predict whether or when the court will grant final approval of the settlement or the timing of any changes to the AWP. In the absence of any action on the part of the Company to renegotiate with its customers the pricing of those pharmacy distribution contracts that use AWP, the proposed reduction in First Data Bank’s AWP could adversely affect the margin earned on those distribution contracts that use AWP, however it is not expected to have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Risks Related To Realization of Goodwill and Intangible Assets—The Company’s profitability could be adversely affected if the value of intangible assets is not fully realized. The Company’s total assets at December 31, 2006 reflect goodwill of approximately $374.4 million, representing approximately 31.0 percent of total assets. There can be no assurance that such goodwill or intangible assets will be realizable. The Company completed the Company’s annual impairment analysis of goodwill as of October 1, 2006 noting that the fair value exceeded the associated carrying value; therefore, no impairment was recorded. At December 31, 2006, identifiable intangible assets (customer lists, contracts and provider networks) totaled approximately $75.4 million. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from approximately three to sixteen years. The amortization periods used may differ from those used by other entities. In addition, the Company may be required to shorten the amortization period for intangible assets in future periods based on changes in the Company’s business. The Company may not ever realize the value of such assets. The Company evaluates, on a regular basis, whether for any reason the carrying value of the Company’s intangible assets and other long-lived assets may no longer be completely recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings for impairment losses could become necessary. When events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the Company assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets other than goodwill by determining whether the carrying value of such intangible assets will be recovered through the future cash flows expected from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Any event or change in circumstances leading to a future determination requiring additional write-offs of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets or goodwill would adversely affect the Company’s profitability. 28 Risk of Potential Limitation of the Company’s Net Operating Loss Carryforwards (“NOLs”)—Certain future changes in the composition of the Company’s stockholder population could, in certain circumstances, limit the Company’s ability to use the Company’s NOLs. The Company estimates that, as of December 31, 2006, the Company had reportable federal NOLs of approximately $357.8 million. These NOLs expire in 2011 through 2025 and are subject to examination and adjustment by the IRS. In addition, the Company’s utilization of these NOLs became subject to limitation under Internal Revenue Code section 382 (“Section 382”) upon emergence from bankruptcy, which affects the timing of the use of NOLs. At this time, the Company does not believe these limitations will materially limit the Company’s ability to use any NOLs before they expire. The limitations imposed by Section 382 provide that a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may generally thereafter only utilize its pre-change losses (including, in some cases, certain so-called “built-in” losses that have not yet been recognized for federal income tax purposes) to offset a fixed amount of taxable income per year. A corporation generally undergoes an ownership change if the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by one or more 5% shareholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points over, at most, a three-year period (with certain groups of less-than-5% shareholders treated as a single shareholder for this purpose). The Company underwent such an ownership change upon consummation of its reorganization in January 2004. Subsequent changes in the Company’s stock ownership, including other sales of the Company’s common stock by 5% shareholders, certain purchases that result in 5% or greater ownership of the Company’s common stock, certain changes in the indirect beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock, and issuances or redemptions of common stock by the Company, could result in another ownership change that would trigger an additional Section 382 limitation. The application of another Section 382 limitation on the Company’s federal NOLs as a result of future ownership changes could reduce the amount of such NOLs the Company could utilize in a year, and thereby have an adverse effect on the Company’s anticipated future cash flow, if, for example, the fair market value of the Company’s stock were to decline significantly prior to such ownership change. In general, the amount of the annual limitation to which a corporation’s pre-change losses are subject following an ownership change is equal to the product of (1) the fair market value of the corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain reductions) multiplied by (2) the “long-term tax-exempt rate” in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. In certain circumstances, the annual limitation for a particular year may be increased due to the subsequent recognition of so-called “built-in” gains that existed at the time of the ownership change. Any unused limitation may be carried forward, thereby increasing the annual limitation in the subsequent taxable year. However, if the Company did not continue the Company’s historic business or use a significant portion of the Company’s assets in a new business for two years after the ownership change, the resulting annual limitation would be reduced, possibly to zero. Claims for Professional Liability—Pending or future actions or claims for professional liability (including any associated judgments, settlements, legal fees and other costs) could require the Company to make significant cash expenditures and consume significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. Management and administration of the delivery of specialty managed healthcare, and the direct provision of healthcare treatment services, entail significant risks of liability. In recent years, participants in the specialty managed healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits. From time to time, the Company is subject to various actions and claims of professional liability alleging negligence in performing utilization review activities, as well as for the acts or omissions of the Company’s employees, network providers or others. In the normal course of business, the Company receives reports relating to deaths and other serious incidents involving patients enrolled in the Company’s programs. Such 29 incidents occasionally give rise to malpractice, professional negligence and other related actions and claims against the Company or the Company’s network providers. The Company is also subject to actions and claims for the costs of services for which payment was denied. Many of these actions and claims seek substantial damages and require the Company to incur significant fees and costs related to the Company’s defense and consume significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. Professional Liability and Other Insurance—Claims brought against the Company that exceed the scope of the Company’s liability coverage or denial of coverage could materially and adversely affect the Company’s profitability and financial condition. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in the Company’s business. As part of this program of insurance, the Company carries professional liability insurance, subject to certain deductibles and self-insured retentions. The Company also is sometimes required by customer contracts to post surety bonds with respect to the Company’s potential liability on professional responsibility claims that may be asserted in connection with services the Company provides. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $6.2 million of such bonds outstanding. The Company’s insurance may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to present or future claims, suits or complaints. Upon expiration of the Company’s insurance policies, sufficient insurance may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent the Company’s customers are entitled to indemnification under their contracts with the Company relating to liabilities they incur arising from the operation of the Company’s programs, such indemnification may not be covered under the Company’s insurance policies. To the extent that certain actions and claims seek punitive and compensatory damages arising from the Company’s alleged intentional misconduct, such damages, if awarded, may not be covered, in whole or in part, by the Company’s insurance policies. The Company also has potential liability relating to the self-insurance program the Company maintained previously with respect to the Company’s provider business. If the Company is unable to secure adequate insurance in the future, or if the insurance the Company carries is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future actions or claims, such judgments, settlements or costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. If the Company is unable to obtain needed surety bonds in adequate amounts or make alternative arrangements to satisfy the requirements for such bonds, the Company may no longer be able to operate in those states, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Class Action Suits and Other Legal Proceedings—The Company could be targeted by class action and other lawsuits that could result in material liabilities to the Company or cause the Company to incur material costs, to change the Company’s operating procedures in ways that increase costs or to comply with additional regulatory requirements. Managed healthcare companies and PBM companies have been targeted as defendants in national class action lawsuits regarding their business practices. The Company has in the past been subject to such class actions as defendants and is also subject to other lawsuits and legal proceedings in conducting the Company’s business. These lawsuits may take years to resolve and cause the Company to incur substantial litigation expenses and the outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. In addition to potential damage awards, depending upon the outcomes of such cases, these lawsuits may cause or force changes in practices of the Company’s industry and may also cause additional regulation of the industry through new federal or state laws or new applications of existing laws or regulations. Such changes could increase the Company’s operating costs. 30 Government Investigations—The Company may be subjected to additional regulatory requirements and to investigations or regulatory action by governmental agencies, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Company receives notifications from and engages in discussions with various government agencies concerning the Company’s businesses and operations. As a result of these contacts with regulators, the Company may, as appropriate, be required to implement changes to the Company’s operations, revise the Company’s filings with such agencies and/or seek additional licenses to conduct the Company’s business. The Company’s inability to comply with the various regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may become subject to regulatory investigations relating to the Company’s business, which may result in litigation or regulatory action. A subsequent legal liability or a significant regulatory action against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if the Company ultimately prevails in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, such litigation, regulatory action or investigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 