Risk Factors Reliance on Customer Contracts—The Company's inability to renew, extend or replace expiring or terminated contracts could adversely affect the Company's liquidity, profitability and financial condition. Substantially all of the Company's net revenue is derived from contracts that may be terminated immediately with cause and many, including some of the Company's most significant contracts, are terminable without cause by the customer upon notice and the passage of a specified period of time (typically between 60 and 180 days), or upon the occurrence of certain other specified events. The Company's ten largest customers accounted for 73.0 percent and 68.7 percent of the Company's net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Loss of all of these contracts or customers would, and loss of any one of these contracts or customers could, materially reduce the Company's net revenue and have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, profitability and financial condition. Significant Customers Consolidated Company The Company's contracts with TennCare and the Company's Maricopa Contract generated net revenues that exceeded, in the aggregate, ten percent of net revenues for the consolidated Company for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Maricopa Contract generated net revenues that exceeded, in the aggregate, ten percent of net revenues for the consolidated Company for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company also has a significant concentration of business from contracts with subsidiaries of WellPoint and with the Pennsylvania Counties. Pursuant to the Maricopa Contract, the Company provides behavioral healthcare management and other related services to approximately 714,000 members in Maricopa County, Arizona. Under the Maricopa Contract, the Company is responsible for providing covered behavioral health services to persons eligible under Title XIX (Medicaid) and Title XXI (State Children's Health Insurance Program) of the Social Security Act, non-Title XIX and non-Title XIX eligible children and adults with a serious mental illness, and to certain non-Title XIX and non-Title XXI adults with behavioral health or substance abuse disorders. The Maricopa Contract began on September 1, 2007 and extends through August 31, 2011 unless sooner terminated by the parties. The State of Arizona has the right to terminate the Maricopa Contract for cause, as defined, upon ten days' notice with an opportunity to cure, and without cause immediately upon notice from the State. The Maricopa Contract generated net revenues of $621.6 million and $725.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. 20 Table of Contents The TennCare program is divided into three regions, and through March 31, 2007 the Company's TennCare contracts encompassed all of the TennCare membership for all three regions. As of April 1, 2007 substantially all of the membership in the Middle Grand Region was re-assigned to managed care companies in accordance with contract awards by TennCare pursuant to its request for proposals for the management of the integrated delivery of behavioral and physical medical care to the region. Substantially all of the membership in the West Grand and East Grand Regions was similarly re-assigned to managed care companies in accordance with contract awards by TennCare effective November 1, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively. The Company continued to manage behavioral healthcare services for children enrolled in TennCare Select High, statewide, as well as for certain out-of-state TennCare members pursuant to contracts that extended through August 31, 2009, at which time the contracts terminated. The Company recorded net revenues of $282.4 million and $36.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, from its TennCare contracts. Total net revenues from the Company's contracts with WellPoint were $186.7 million and $170.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, including radiology benefits management revenue of $162.5 million and $155.9 million, respectively. In July 2007, WellPoint acquired a radiology benefits management company, and has expressed its intent to in-source all of its radiology benefits management contracts when such contracts expire. The Company had several radiology benefits management contracts with WellPoint including one that converted from an ASO arrangement to a risk arrangement effective July 1, 2007. Such risk contract has a term through December 31, 2010, and cannot be terminated early, except for cause, as defined in the agreement. The Company's other radiology benefits management ASO contracts with WellPoint had $11.4 million of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 and these ASO contracts terminated at various dates in 2008. Net revenues from the Pennsylvania Counties in the aggregate totaled $288.1 million and $315.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. By Segment Two customers generated greater than ten percent of Commercial net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. The first customer has a contract that extends through December 31, 2012 and generated net revenues of $217.0 million and $235.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The second customer has a contract that extends through June 30, 2014 and generated net revenues of $90.8 million and $85.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Net revenues from the Maricopa Contract and TennCare were each greater than ten percent of the net revenues for the Public Sector segment for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the Maricopa Contract, one customer generated net revenues greater than ten percent of net revenues for the Public Sector segment for the year ended December 31, 2009. This customer generated net revenues of $140.5 million and $147.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. This customer contract extends through June 30, 2012 with options for the customer to extend the term of the contract for three one year terms. In addition to WellPoint, one other customer generated greater than ten percent of the net revenues for the Radiology Benefits Management segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. This customer has a contract that extends through May 31, 2011 and generated net revenues of $96.4 million and $80.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Included in the Company's Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment are five customers that each exceeded ten percent of the net revenues for this segment during the year ended December 31, 2008. Four of such customers generated $71.9 million, $49.5 million, $28.0 million, and $26.8 million of 21 Table of Contents net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008. The other contract generated net revenues of $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and this contract terminated December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, four customers each exceeded ten percent of the net revenues for this segment. Such customers generated $85.7 million, $49.7 million, $43.9 million, and $30.9 million of net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009. The previously mentioned contract that terminated as of December 31, 2008 generated net revenues for run-off activity of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the period from August 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, four customers each exceeded ten percent of the net revenues for the Medicaid Administration segment. Three of such customers generated $11.4 million, $10.5 million, and $9.0 million of net revenues for this segment. The other customer generated revenue of $8.8 million during this period, and this contract is scheduled to terminate June 30, 2010, unless terminated earlier by the customer. Integration of Companies Acquired by Magellan—The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if the integration of companies acquired by Magellan is not completed in a timely and effective manner. One of the Company's growth strategies is to make strategic acquisitions which are complementary to its existing operations. After Magellan closes on an acquisition, it must integrate the acquired company into Magellan's policies, procedures and systems. Failure to effectively integrate an acquired business could result in excessive costs being incurred, a delay in obtaining targeted synergies, decreased customer performance (which could result in contract penalties and/or terminations), increased employee turnover, and lost sales opportunities. Changes in the Medical Managed Care Carve-Out Industry—Certain changes in the business practices of this industry could negatively impact the Company's resources, profitability and results of operations. Substantially all of the Company's Commercial, Radiology Benefits Management and Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segments' net revenues are derived from customers in the medical managed care industry, including managed care companies, health insurers and other health plans. Some types of changes in this industry's business practices could negatively impact the Company. For example, if the Company's managed care customers seek to provide services directly to their subscribers, instead of contracting with the Company for such services, the Company could be adversely affected. In this regard, certain of the Company's major customers in the past have not renewed all or part of their contracts with the Company, and instead provided managed behavioral healthcare services directly to their subscribers. Other of the Company's customers that are managed care companies could also seek to provide services directly to their subscribers, rather than by contracting with the Company for such services. In addition, the Company has a significant number of contracts with Blue Cross Blue Shield plans and other regional health plans. Consolidation of the healthcare industry through acquisitions and mergers could potentially result in the loss of contracts for the Company. Any of these changes could reduce the Company's net revenue, and adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition. Changes in the Contracting Model for Medicaid Contracts—Certain changes in the contracting model used by states for managed healthcare services contracts relating to Medicaid lives could negatively impact the Company's resources, profitability and results of operations. Substantially all of the Company's Public Sector segment net revenue is derived from direct contracts that it has with state or county governments for the provision of services to Medicaid enrollees. In addition to TennCare discussed above, certain other states have recently contracted with managed care companies to manage both the behavioral and physical medical care of its Medicaid 22 Table of Contents enrollees. If other governmental entities change the method for contracting for Medicaid business to a fully integrated model, the Company will attempt to subcontract with the managed care organizations to provide behavioral healthcare management for such Medicaid business; however, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to secure such arrangements. Accordingly, if such a change in the contracting model were to occur, it is possible that the Company could lose current contracted revenues, as well as be unable to bid on potential new business opportunities, thus negatively impacting the Company's profitability and financial condition. Risk-Based Products—Because the Company provides services at a fixed fee, if the Company is unable to accurately predict and control healthcare costs, the Company's profitability could decline. The Company derives its net revenue primarily from arrangements under which the Company assumes responsibility for costs of treatment in exchange for a fixed fee. The Company refers to such arrangements as "risk-based contracts" or "risk-based products," which include EAP services. These arrangements provided 84.2 percent and 80.8 percent of the Company's net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Profitability of the Company's risk contracts could be reduced if the Company is unable to accurately estimate the rate of service utilization by members or the cost of such services when the Company prices its services. The Company's assumptions of utilization and costs when the Company prices its services may not ultimately reflect actual utilization rates and costs, many aspects of which are beyond the Company's control. If the cost of services provided to members under a contract together with the administrative costs exceeds the aggregate fees received by the Company under such contract, the Company will incur a loss on the contract. The Company's profitability could also be reduced if the Company is required to make adjustments to estimates made in reporting historical financial results regarding cost of care, reflected in the Company's financial statements as medical claims payable. Medical claims payable includes reserves for incurred but not reported ("IBNR") claims, which are claims for covered services rendered by the Company's providers which have not yet been submitted to the Company for payment. The Company estimates and reserves for IBNR claims based on past claims payment experience, including the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date the claims are received and between the date services are rendered and the date claims are paid, enrollment data, utilization statistics, adjudication decisions, authorized healthcare services and other factors. This data is incorporated into contract-specific reserve models. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. If such risk-based RBM products are not correctly underwritten, the Company's profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Factors that affect the Company's ability to price the Company's services, or accurately make estimates of IBNR claims and other expenses for which the Company creates reserves may include differences between the Company's assumptions and actual results arising from, among other things: •changes in the delivery system; •changes in utilization patterns; •changes in the number of members seeking treatment; •unforeseen fluctuations in claims backlogs; •unforeseen increases in the costs of the services; •the occurrence of catastrophes; •regulatory changes; and 23 Table of Contents •changes in benefit plan design. Some of these factors could impact the ability of the Company to manage and control the medical costs to the extent assumed in the pricing of its services. If the Company's membership in risk-based business continues to grow (which is a major focus of the Company's strategy), the Company's exposure to potential losses from risk-based products will also increase. Fluctuation in Operating Results—The Company experiences fluctuations in quarterly operating results and, as a consequence, the Company may fail to meet or exceed market expectations, which could cause the Company's stock price to decline. The Company's quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to seasonal and other factors, including: •changes in utilization levels by enrolled members of the Company's risk-based contracts, including seasonal utilization patterns (for example, members generally tend to seek services less during the third and fourth quarters of the year than in the first and second quarters of the year); •performance-based contractual adjustments to net revenue, reflecting utilization results or other performance measures; •changes in estimates for contractual adjustments under commercial contracts; •retrospective membership adjustments; •the timing of implementation of new contracts and enrollment changes; and •changes in estimates regarding medical costs and IBNR claims. These factors may affect the Company's quarterly and annual net revenue, expenses and profitability in the future and, accordingly, the Company may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the Company's stock price to decline. Dependence on Government Spending—The Company can be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local healthcare policies, programs, funding, and enrollments. All of the Company's Public Sector and Medicaid Administration segment net revenue and a portion of the Company's net revenue in the Company's other three operating segments are derived, directly or indirectly, from governmental agencies, including state Medicaid programs. Contract rates vary from state to state, are subject to periodic negotiation and may limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase rates. The Company is unable to predict the impact on the Company's operations of future regulations or legislation affecting Medicaid programs, or the healthcare industry in general, and future regulations or legislation may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, any reduction in government spending for such programs could also have a material adverse effect on the Company (See "Reliance on Customer Contracts"). In addition, the Company's contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, generally are conditioned upon financial appropriations by one or more governmental agencies, especially in the case of state Medicaid programs. These contracts generally can be terminated or modified by the customer if such appropriations are not made. The Company faces increased risks in this regard as state budgets have come under increasing pressure due to the recent economic downturn. Finally, some of the Company's contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, require the Company to perform additional services if federal, state or local laws or regulations imposed after the contract is 24 Table of Contents signed so require, in exchange for additional compensation to be negotiated by the parties in good faith. Government and other third-party payors generally seek to impose lower contract rates and to renegotiate reduced contract rates with service providers in a trend toward cost control. Restrictive Covenants in the Company's Debt Instruments—Restrictions imposed by the Company's debt agreements limit the Company's operating and financial flexibility. These restrictions may adversely affect the Company's ability to finance the Company's future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company's interest. On April 30, 2008, the Company entered into a credit facility with Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. that provided for a $100.0 million Revolving Loan Commitment for the issuance of letters of credit for the account of the Company with a sublimit of up to $30.0 million for revolving loans (the "2008 Credit Facility"). On April 29, 2009, the Company entered into an amendment to the 2008 Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank AG, Citibank, N.A., and Bank of America, N.A. that provides for an $80.0 million Revolving Loan Commitment for the issuance of letters of credit for the account of the Company with a sublimit of up to $30.0 million for revolving loans (the "2009 Credit Facility"), which contains a number of covenants. These covenants limit Company management's discretion in operating the Company's business by restricting or limiting the Company's ability, among other things, to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred or redeemable stock; •pay dividends and make other distributions; •repurchase equity interests; •make certain advances, investments and loans; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •create liens; •sell and otherwise dispose of assets; •acquire or merge or consolidate with another company; and •enter into some types of transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could adversely affect the Company's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company's interest. The 2009 Credit Facility also requires the Company to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to do so, unless waived by the lenders under the 2009 Credit Facility, pursuant to its terms, would result in an event of default under the 2009 Credit Facility. The 2009 Credit Facility is guaranteed by most of the Company's subsidiaries and is secured by most of the Company's assets and the Company's subsidiaries' assets. Required Assurances of Financial Resources—The Company's liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability can be adversely affected by present or future state regulations and contractual requirements that the Company provide financial assurance of the Company's ability to meet the Company's obligations. Some of the Company's contracts and certain state regulations require the Company or certain of the Company's subsidiaries to maintain specified cash reserves or letters of credit and/or to maintain certain minimum tangible net equity in certain of the Company's subsidiaries as assurance that the Company has financial resources to meet the Company's contractual obligations. Many of these state regulations also restrict the investment activity of certain of the Company's subsidiaries. Some state regulations also restrict the ability of certain of the Company's subsidiaries to pay dividends to 25 Table of Contents Magellan. Additional state regulations could be promulgated that would increase the cash or other security the Company would be required to maintain. In addition, the Company's customers may require additional restricted cash or other security with respect to the Company's obligations under the Company's contracts, including the Company's obligation to pay IBNR claims and other medical claims not yet processed and paid. In addition, certain of the Company's contracts and state regulations limit the profits that the Company may earn on risk-based business. The Company's liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability could be adversely affected by the effects of such regulations and contractual provisions. See Note 2—"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Restricted Assets" to the consolidated financial statements set forth elsewhere herein for a discussion of the Company's restricted assets. Competition—The competitive environment in the specialty managed healthcare industry may limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase the Company's rates, which would limit or adversely affect the Company's profitability, and any failure in the Company's ability to respond adequately may adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain contracts or obtain new contracts. The Company's business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other healthcare organizations as well as with insurance companies, including HMOs, PPOs, TPAs, IPAs, multi-disciplinary medical groups, PBMs, specialty pharmacy companies, radiology benefits management companies and other specialty healthcare and managed care companies. Many of the Company's competitors, particularly certain insurance companies, HMOs and PBMs are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company, which can create downward pressure on prices through economies of scale. The entrance or expansion of these larger companies in the specialty managed healthcare industry (including the Company's customers who have in-sourced or who may choose to in-source healthcare services) could increase the competitive pressures the Company faces and could limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase the Company's rates. If this happens, the Company's profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if the Company does not adequately respond to these competitive pressures, it could cause the Company to not be able to maintain its current contracts or to not be able to obtain new contracts. Possible Impact of Healthcare Reform—Potential healthcare reform can significantly reduce the Company's revenues or profitability. The U.S. Congress and certain state legislatures are considering legislation that, among other things, would limit healthcare plans and methods of operations, limit employers' and healthcare plans' ability to define medical necessity, permit employers and healthcare plans to be sued in state courts for coverage determinations, provide universal health insurance at the state level, provide for minimum medical loss ratios, and otherwise affect health care insurance and managed care. It is uncertain whether the Company could recoup, through higher revenues or other measures, the increased costs of federal or state mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by such legislation or similar legislation. Other federal or state changes in law regarding managed care or universal health insurance coverage could also have adverse consequences for the Company's business. The Company cannot predict the effect of this legislation or other legislation that may be adopted by Congress or by the states, and such legislation, if implemented, could have an adverse effect on the Company. In October 2008, the United States Congress passed legislation establishing parity in financial requirements (e.g. co-pays, deductibles, etc.) and treatment limitations (e.g. limits on the number of visits) between mental health and substance abuse benefits and medical/surgical benefits for members. This new law does not require coverage for mental health or substance abuse disorders but if coverage is provided it must be provided at parity. No specific disorders are mandated for coverage; health plans are able to define mental health and substance abuse to determine what they are going to cover. State mandated benefits laws are not preempted. The law applies to ERISA plans, Medicaid managed care 26 Table of Contents plans and SCHIP plans. There is an exemption for small employers. Interim final regulations were issued on February 2, 2010. No assurance can be given that such legislation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. However, the Company's commercial risk behavioral contracts generally allow for re-pricing to occur in the event that any legislation becomes effective if that legislation or regulation results in a material affect on cost of care. There is currently discussion about the potential for health care reform, both at state and national levels. The proposals for reform include the government assuming a larger role in the health care system or a restructuring of Medicare or Medicaid programs. One of the items discussed has been reducing payments to private health plans offering Medicare Advantage. Depending on the outcome of these potential reductions, there is the possibility that membership and earnings derived from these plans may decrease. The Company cannot speculate on the outcome of any such "reform," how it may impact the Company's business, and when it may become effective. Therefore, at this time the Company is unable to predict whether there will be any effect, positive or adverse, on its business as a result of any such healthcare reform. Government Regulation—The Company is subject to substantial government regulation and scrutiny, which increase the Company's costs of doing business and could adversely affect the Company's profitability. The specialty managed healthcare industry and the provision of specialty managed healthcare are subject to extensive and evolving federal and state regulation. Such laws and regulations cover, but are not limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government healthcare program participation requirements, information privacy and security, reimbursement for patient services, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. The Company's specialty pharmaceutical management business is also the subject of substantial federal and state governmental regulation and scrutiny. Government investigations and allegations have become more frequent concerning possible violations of fraud and abuse and false claims statutes and regulations by healthcare organizations. Violators may be excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subject to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed services. A violation of such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is subject to certain state laws and regulations and federal laws as a result of the Company's role in management of customers' employee benefit plans. Regulatory issues may also affect the Company's operations including, but not limited to: •additional state licenses that may be required to conduct the Company's businesses, including utilization review and TPA activities; •limits imposed by state authorities upon corporations' control or excessive influence over managed healthcare services through the direct employment of physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists or other professionals, and prohibiting fee splitting; •laws that impose financial terms and requirements on the Company due to the Company's assumption of risk under contracts with licensed insurance companies or HMOs; •laws in certain states that impose an obligation to contract with any healthcare provider willing to meet the terms of the Company's contracts with similar providers; •maintaining confidentiality of patient information; and •complying with HIPAA. 27 Table of Contents The imposition of additional licensing and other regulatory requirements may, among other things, increase the Company's equity requirements, increase the cost of doing business or force significant changes in the Company's operations to comply with these requirements. The costs associated with compliance with government regulation as discussed above may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces additional regulatory risks associated with its Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment which could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny and liability and which could adversely affect the profitability of the Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment in the future. With the Company's acquisition of ICORE, additional federal and state regulations became applicable to the Company. Various aspects of the Company's Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segment are governed by federal and state laws and regulations not previously applicable to the Company or which may now be applicable in different ways. Significant sanctions may be imposed for violations of these laws and compliance programs are a significant operational requirement of the Company's business. There are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to the Company. Accordingly, the Company may be required to incur additional administrative and compliance expenses in determining the applicable requirements and in adapting its compliance practices, or modifying its business practices, in order to satisfy changing interpretations and regulatory policies. In addition, there are numerous proposed health care laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company's business. See "Regulation" above. Risks Related To Realization of Goodwill and Intangible Assets—The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if the value of intangible assets is not fully realized. The Company's total assets at December 31, 2009 reflect goodwill of approximately $426.5 million, representing approximately 30.0 percent of total assets. The Company completed the Company's annual impairment analysis of goodwill as of October 1, 2009 noting that no impairment was identified. At December 31, 2009, identifiable intangible assets (customer lists, contracts and provider networks) totaled approximately $64.8 million. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from approximately three to eighteen years. The amortization periods used may differ from those used by other entities. In addition, the Company may be required to shorten the amortization period for intangible assets in future periods based on changes in the Company's business. There can be no assurance that such goodwill or intangible assets will be realizable. The Company evaluates, on a regular basis, whether for any reason the carrying value of the Company's intangible assets and other long-lived assets may no longer be completely recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings for impairment losses could become necessary. When events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the Company assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets other than goodwill by determining whether the carrying value of such intangible assets will be recovered through the future cash flows expected from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Any event or change in circumstances leading to a future determination requiring write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets or goodwill would adversely affect the Company's profitability. 28 Table of Contents Claims for Professional Liability—Pending or future actions or claims for professional liability (including any associated judgments, settlements, legal fees and other costs) could require the Company to make significant cash expenditures and consume significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. Management and administration of the delivery of specialty managed healthcare, the operation of specialty pharmacies and specialty pharmacy drug dispensing, and the direct provision of healthcare treatment services such as the services that the Company provided through the direct care clinics operated under the Maricopa Contract, entail significant risks of liability. In recent years, participants in the healthcare industry generally, as well as the specialty managed healthcare industry, have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits. From time to time, the Company is subject to various actions and claims of professional liability alleging negligence in performing utilization review and other specialty managed healthcare activities, as well as for the acts or omissions of the Company's employees, including employed physicians and other clinicians, network providers, pharmacists, or others. In the normal course of business, the Company receives reports relating to deaths and other serious incidents involving patients whose care is being managed by the Company. Such incidents occasionally give rise to malpractice, professional negligence and other related actions and claims against the Company, the Company's employees, or the Company's network providers. The Company is also subject to actions and claims for the costs of services for which payment was denied. Many of these actions and claims seek substantial damages and require the Company to incur significant fees and costs related to the Company's defense and consume significant management time and resources. While the Company maintains professional liability insurance, there can be no assurance that future actions or claims for professional liability (including any judgments, settlements or costs associated therewith) will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. Professional Liability and Other Insurance—Claims brought against the Company that exceed the scope of the Company's liability coverage or denial of coverage could materially and adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in the Company's business. As part of this program of insurance, the Company carries professional liability insurance, subject to certain deductibles and self-insured retentions. The Company also is sometimes required by customer contracts to post surety bonds with respect to the Company's potential liability on professional responsibility claims that may be asserted in connection with services the Company provides. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $103.5 million of such bonds outstanding. The Company's insurance may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to present or future claims, suits or complaints. Upon expiration of the Company's insurance policies, sufficient insurance may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent the Company's customers are entitled to indemnification under their contracts with the Company relating to liabilities they incur arising from the operation of the Company's programs, such indemnification may not be covered under the Company's insurance policies. To the extent that certain actions and claims seek punitive and compensatory damages arising from the Company's alleged intentional misconduct, such damages, if awarded, may not be covered, in whole or in part, by the Company's insurance policies. If the Company is unable to secure adequate insurance in the future, or if the insurance the Company carries is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future actions or claims, such judgments, settlements or costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. If the Company is unable to obtain needed surety bonds in adequate amounts or make alternative arrangements to satisfy the requirements for such bonds, the Company may no longer be able to operate in those states, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 29 Table of Contents Class Action Suits and Other Legal Proceedings—The Company is subject to class action and other lawsuits that could result in material liabilities to the Company or cause the Company to incur material costs, to change the Company's operating procedures in ways that increase costs or to comply with additional regulatory requirements. Managed healthcare companies and PBM companies have been targeted as defendants in national class action lawsuits regarding their business practices. The Company has in the past been subject to such national class actions as defendants and is also subject to or a party to other class actions, lawsuits and legal proceedings in conducting the Company's business. In addition, certain of the Company's customers are parties to pending class action lawsuits regarding the customers' business practices for which the customers could seek indemnification from the Company. These lawsuits may take years to resolve and cause the Company to incur substantial litigation expenses and the outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. In addition to potential damage awards, depending upon the outcomes of such cases, these lawsuits may cause or force changes in practices of the Company's industry and may also cause additional regulation of the industry through new federal or state laws or new applications of existing laws or regulations. Such changes could increase the Company's operating costs. Government Investigations—The Company may be subjected to additional regulatory requirements and to investigations or regulatory action by governmental agencies, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Company receives notifications from and engages in discussions with various government agencies concerning the Company's businesses and operations. As a result of these contacts with regulators, the Company may, as appropriate, be required to implement changes to the Company's operations, revise the Company's filings with such agencies and/or seek additional licenses to conduct the Company's business. The Company's inability to comply with the various regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, the Company may become subject to regulatory investigations relating to the Company's business, which may result in litigation or regulatory action. A subsequent legal liability or a significant regulatory action against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if the Company ultimately prevails in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, such litigation, regulatory action or investigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Investment Portfolio—The value of the Company's investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income. The Company's available-for-sale investment securities were $230.4 million and represented 16.0 percent of the Company's total consolidated assets at December 31, 2009. These assets are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity, unless a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary. If a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the cost basis of the impaired security is written down to fair value and a charge is taken through operations. The Company has concluded that all of the Company's unrealized losses are temporary and the Company has the intent and ability to hold the securities until they recover or mature. Therefore, the Company has not recorded any other than temporary impairments. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company reviews its investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. The Company conducts this review on a quarterly basis, using both 30 Table of Contents quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, trading activity and marketability of the security, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of the Company's ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. The Company believes it has adequately reviewed its investment securities for impairment and that its investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change the Company's judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a risk that declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. Adverse Economic Conditions—The state of the national economy and adverse changes in economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The state of the economy has negatively affected state budgets and could adversely affect the Company's reimbursement from state Medicaid programs in its Medicaid Administration and Public Sector segments. The state of the economy and adverse economic conditions could also adversely affect the Company's customers in the Commercial, Radiology Benefits Management and Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segments resulting in increased pressures on the Company's operating margins. In addition, the economic conditions may result in decreased membership in the Commercial, Radiology Benefits Management, and Specialty Pharmaceutical Management segments, thereby adversely affecting the revenues to the Company from such customers as well as the Company's operating profitability. Adverse economic conditions in the debt markets may affect the Company's ability to refinance, or the terms of, a new credit facility, upon the maturity of the Company's existing 2009 Credit Facility on April 28, 2010. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 