Risk Factors We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our businesses and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our businesses, which we believe are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, or could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected or historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. The distribution agreements of our Carsen subsidiary covering its sale and service of Olympus products in Canada will expire on July 31, 2006, which will result in the loss of a significant portion of our net sales, operating income and net income. The majority of our endoscopy and surgical products and scientific products are manufactured and supplied by Olympus and are sold by us pursuant to exclusive distribution agreements covering Canada that will expire on July 31, 2006 without any further renewal or extension. This will result in a significant loss of net sales, operating income and net income commencing in fiscal 2007, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. See “—Termination of Carsen’s Distribution Agreements with Olympus.” Our market for dialysis reprocessing products is limited to dialysis centers that reuse dialyzers, which market has been decreasing in the United States. Dialysis centers in the United States that choose to clean, disinfect and reuse dialyzers (artificial kidneys), known as dialyzer reuse, rather then discard the dialyzers after a single use, derive an economic benefit since such dialysis clinics generally receive a capitated payment for providing hemodialysis treatment. Our dialyzer reprocessing products are limited to use by centers that reuse dialyzers. Although current public information is not available to accurately quantify the number of dialysis centers currently employing dialyzer reuse versus single use, we believe that approximately 50% of all dialysis centers in the United States currently reuse dialyzers. This compares to approximately 76% reuse reported by the Centers for Disease Control in 2001. We believe that the shift from reuse to single use dialyzers is principally due to the commitment of Fresenius, the largest dialysis chain in the United States and a manufacturer of single-use dialyzers, to convert all of its reuse dialysis clinics (including newly acquired clinics) to single use facilities. A continued decrease in dialyzer reuse in the United States in favor of single use dialyzers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In May 2005, Fresenius announced that it entered into an agreement to acquire RCG, a significant customer of our dialysis reuse products. If Fresenius’s acquisition is consummated, and if Fresenius converts all or substantially all of the dialysis clinics of RCG into single-use facilities, our sales of dialysis products will be adversely affected due to the reduction in our customer base. Given 24 the uncertainty of the post-acquisition operating strategy of Fresenius with respect to the timing of its likely transition of RCG clinics to single-use facilities, it is difficult to accurately predict the future impact on our sales of dialysis products and services. The consolidation of dialysis providers (i.e., large chains are increasingly buying other chains and independents) could result in a reduction in our net sales due to reduced average selling prices of dialysis products. There has been an increasing consolidation in the dialysis industry, marked by the acquisition by certain major dialysis chains of smaller chains and independents. In October 2005, DaVita, the second largest dialysis chain in the United States, acquired Gambro US. In addition, in May 2005, Fresenius announced its proposed acquisition of RCG described above. DaVita, Gambro US, and RCG are significant customers of our dialysis reuse products. The consolidation of dialysis providers has resulted in greater buying power by the larger resulting entities and thereby a reduction in our gross margins due to reduced average selling prices of dialysis products. This trend is likely to continue, particularly given the impending acquisitions described above. However, given the uncertainty of the post-acquisition operating strategies with respect to the two acquisitions, it is difficult to accurately predict the impact on our future sales and gross margins of dialysis products and services. The loss of a significant amount of dialysis business could have a material adverse effect on our business. We sell a substantial portion of our endoscope reprocessing products through a single distributor under an agreement that expires on August 1, 2006; we depend on such distributor for a significant portion of our endoscope reprocessing business. Pursuant to a distribution agreement that expires August 1, 2006, Olympus is the sole distributor of our Medivators reprocessing systems and related products in the United States and Puerto Rico. In fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, net sales to Olympus accounted for approximately 8.2%, 9.7% and 10.4%, respectively of our net sales. In the event that Olympus significantly reduces or terminates its purchases of products from us, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are currently uncertain whether we will renew the agreement, seek a new third party distributor, or directly undertake the distribution function after August 1, 2006. If we do not renew the distribution agreement or, if offered, Olympus fails to renew the agreement, then we would be required to engage a new distributor or establish our own distribution system. Such a disruption in the distribution of our products, could result in a significant decrease in our net sales and operating income, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a new distributor or establish our own distribution system on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to find a new distributor or to successfully establish our own distribution system could materially adversely affect our business. Because a significant portion of Crosstex net sales comes from a few large customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers could harm our operating results. The distribution network in the United States dental industry is concentrated, with relatively few distributors of consumables accounting for a significant share of the sales volume to dentists. Accordingly, net sales and profitability of Crosstex are highly dependent on its relationships with a limited number of large distributors. During the year ended April 30, 2005, the top four customers of Crosstex accounted for approximately 50% of its net sales. In particular, Henry Schein, Benco Dental, Patterson Dental and Darby Medical Supply each accounted for 10% or more of Crosstex’ gross sales for the latest fiscal year of Crosstex ended April 30, 2005. We are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration in Crosstex. We cannot assure you that there will not be a loss or reduction in business from one or more of our major customers. In addition, we 25 cannot assure you that net sales from customers that have accounted for significant net sales in the past, either individually or as a group, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Although we do not anticipate that any of Crosstex’ customers will account for more than 10% of our Company-wide net sales on a consolidated basis, the loss or a significant reduction of business from any of the major customers of Crosstex could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, because Crosstex’ products are sold through third party distributors, and not directly to end users, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors devote to our products. Our Crosstex business is heavily reliant on certain raw materials; recent hurricane damage to resin suppliers has resulted in product shortages and price increases. Although there is a diversity of products produced by Crosstex, many of them are made from paper pulp and resin. We are exposed to rising raw material prices with no guarantees that such increases in costs can be passed along to our customers. As a result of damage caused by recent Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita to many resin suppliers there is now a shortage of material in the market. These suppliers are now allocating available resin to their customers. Crosstex has sufficient resin inventory to meet its requirements over the next few months but is actively seeking new supply sources, as well as alternative materials. If these shortages continue beyond a few months, output of some of our products could be adversely affected. It is unclear how long the shortages will continue and whether alternative sources or materials will be available to meet our requirements. Moreover, due to the current market conditions, prices for resin have increased significantly. We may be unable to pass along all or a substantial portion of our resin price increases to our customers. In addition, we cannot predict the future of resin prices. Government regulation may delay or prevent new product introduction. Many of our products are subject to regulation by governmental and private agencies in the United States and abroad, which regulate the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and marketing of medical supplies and devices. Certain international regulatory bodies also impose import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties, and tax requirements. Delays in agency review can significantly delay new product introduction and may result in a product becoming “dated” or losing its market opportunity before it can be introduced. The FDA and other agency clearances generally are required before we can market new products in the United States or make significant changes to existing products. The FDA also has the authority to require a recall or modification of products in the event of a defect. The process of obtaining marketing clearances and approvals from regulatory agencies for new products can be time consuming and expensive. There is no assurance that clearances or approvals will be granted or that agency review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that regulation of our products will not become more restrictive in the future and that any such development would not have a material adverse effect on our business. For a more detailed discussion on government regulation and related risks, see “—Government Regulation.” 26 Customer acceptance of our products is dependent on our ability to meet changing requirements. Customer acceptance of our products is significantly dependent on our ability to offer products that meet the changing requirements of our customers, including hospitals, educational institutions, industrial laboratories, doctors, dentists, clinics, government agencies and industrial corporations. Any decrease in the level of customer acceptance of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We distribute our products in highly competitive markets. We distribute substantially all of our products in highly competitive markets that contain many products available from nationally and internationally recognized competitors. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources than us and are well-established. In addition, some companies have developed or may be expected to develop technologies or products that could compete with the products we manufacture and distribute or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. As manufacturers, these companies may have other competitive advantages over us. In addition, our competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval, or product commercialization that would limit our ability to compete with them. Although we believe that we compete effectively with all of our present competitors in our principal product groups, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. These and other competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currency fluctuations and trade barriers could adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of Carsen’s products and, to a lesser extent, Crosstex’ products, are imported from the Far East and Western Europe, and our business could be materially and adversely affected by the imposition of trade barriers, fluctuations in the rates of exchange of various currencies, tariff increases and import and export restrictions, affecting the United States and Canada. Additionally, a substantial portion of the products we purchase in Canada are paid for in United States dollars but are sold in Canadian dollars. Therefore, our business could be materially and adversely affected by a decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar or by the imposition of trade barriers, tariff increases or import and export restrictions between the United States and Canada. Moreover, a decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar could result in a corresponding reduction in the United States dollar value of our assets that are denominated in Canadian dollars. The currency risk described above is offset somewhat by sales of Biolab and Saf-T-Pak to the extent they sell their products in United States dollars. Our growth may be dependent on acquiring new businesses. We intend to grow, in part, by acquiring businesses. The success of this strategy depends upon several factors, including: • our ability to identify and acquire businesses; • our ability to integrate acquired operations, personnel, products and technologies into our organization effectively; • our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the customers of acquired companies; and • financing for our acquisitions may not be available on terms we find acceptable. 27 In addition, we have used our stock as partial consideration for acquisitions. Our common stock may not remain at a price at which it can be used as consideration for acquisitions without diluting our existing stockholders, and potential acquisition candidates may not view our stock attractively. We also may not be able to sustain the rates of growth that we have experienced in the past, whether by acquiring businesses or otherwise. Because we operate in international markets, we are subject to political and economic risks that we do not face in the United States. We operate in a global market. Global operations are subject to risks, including political and economic instability, general economic conditions, imposition of government controls, the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and United States export laws, trade restrictions, and the greater difficulty of administering business overseas. The markets for many of our products are subject to changing technology. The markets for many products we sell, particularly endoscopes, microscopes, and endoscope disinfection equipment, are subject to changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products. We may be exposed to product liability claims resulting from the use of products we sell and distribute. We may be exposed to product liability claims resulting from the products we sell and distribute. We maintain general liability insurance that includes product liability coverage, and Olympus has agreed to indemnify us against any product liability claims brought against us related to Olympus products. We have agreed to indemnify Olympus against any product liability claims brought against Olympus related to our Medivators endoscope reprocessing products. We believe our insurance coverage is adequate for our businesses. However, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage for these risks will continue to be available or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present level of coverage will continue to be available at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on us. We use chemicals and other regulated substances in the manufacturing of our products. In the ordinary course of certain of our manufacturing processes, we use various chemicals and other regulated substances. Although we are not aware of any material claims involving violation of environmental or occupational health and safety laws or regulations, there can be no assurance that such a claim may not arise in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights to maintain our competitive position. We rely heavily on proprietary technology, which we protect primarily through licensing arrangements, patents, trade secrets, and proprietary know-how. There can be no assurance that any pending or future patent applications will be granted or that any current or future patents, regardless of whether we are an owner or a licensee of the patent, will not be challenged, rendered unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented or that the rights will provide a competitive advantage 28 to us. There can also be no assurance that our trade secrets or non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information. There can also be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us or that our technology will not infringe upon patents or other rights owned by others. Although we incur research and development costs, this does not ensure successful product development. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur research and development costs. Research and development costs for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately $4,099,000, $4,212,000, and $4,528,000 respectively. There can be no assurance that this research and development will result in new products that will be successfully introduced to the market. If we are unable to retain key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of key members of our management. Although several key personnel are parties to employment agreements, such agreements cannot assure the continued services of such personnel, and the loss or unavailability of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical, sales, marketing and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our businesses. Our stock price has been volatile and may experience continued significant price and volume fluctuations in the future that could reduce the value of outstanding shares. The market for our common stock has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated to our operating performance. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and new business developments could also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Future sales of our common stock may affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may materially and adversely affect the per share market price of our common stock. In addition, if we issue additional shares of our common stock, existing holders of our common stock may experience dilution, and that dilution may be substantial. Issuances or sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock, including in connection with future acquisitions, if any, or the perception that such issuances or sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline. 