Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. They are not the only ones facing the Company. Other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. GENERAL We have incurred debt to finance the operations of the Company. The Company has debt service obligations that may restrict our operating flexibility. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to service our debt, which may require us to borrow additional funds, or restructure or otherwise refinance our debt. In addition, the Company has the ability to expand its debt and borrowing capacity subject to various restrictions and covenants defined by its creditors. The interest rate the Company pays will fluctuate from time to time based upon a number of factors including current LIBOR rates and Company operating performance. Significant changes in these factors could result in a material change in the Company’s interest expense. Our ability to repay or to refinance our indebtedness and to pay interest on our indebtedness will depend on our operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. These factors could include operating difficulties, increased operating costs, our competitors’ actions and regulatory developments. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations may depend in significant part on the extent to which we successfully implement our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our strategy fully or that the anticipated results of our strategy will be realized. Credit market conditions may make it difficult for us to obtain new financing or refinance our current debt on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our cash flows and capital resources will be sufficient to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness in the future or that alternative measures would successfully meet our debt service obligations. The agreements and instruments governing our outstanding debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and adversely affect the price of our Capital Stock. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our instruments of indebtedness restrict our ability to incur additional debt; issue and sell capital stock of subsidiaries; sell assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; restrict distributions from subsidiaries; incur liens; engage in business other than permitted businesses; engage in sale/leaseback transactions; engage in mergers or consolidations; make capital expenditures; make guarantees; make investments and acquisitions; enter into operating leases; hedge interest rates; and prepay other debt. 11 Moreover, if we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could accelerate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. If acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance such debt on acceptable terms. In the event of any default under our credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, and to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would be an event of default. We depend on our management team and the loss of their service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain other skilled personnel in the future. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that prohibit or restrict the discharge of pollutants into the environment and regulate employee exposure to hazardous substance in the workplace. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to material costs and liabilities, including civil and criminal fines, costs to cleanup contamination we cause and, in some circumstances, costs to cleanup contamination we discover on our own property but did not cause. Because we use and generate hazardous materials in some of our operations, we are potentially subject to material liabilities relating to the cleanup of contamination and personal injury claims. In addition, we have retained certain environmental liabilities in connection with the sale of former businesses. We are currently funding the cleanup of historical contamination at one of our former properties and contributing to the cleanup of third-party sites as a result of our sale of our former subsidiary DuBois Chemicals Inc. Although we have established a reserve for these liabilities, actual cleanup costs may exceed our current estimates due to factors beyond our control, such as the discovery of additional contamination or the enforcement of more stringent cleanup requirements. New laws and regulations or their stricter enforcement, the discovery of presently unknown conditions or the receipt of additional claims for indemnification could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities including impairment of our brand that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain anti-takeover statutes that might make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that could be advantageous to stockholders. An adverse ruling against us in certain litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business currently and from time to time. The damages claimed against us in some of these cases are substantial. See the “Legal Proceedings” sections of this 10-K for discussion of particular matters. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in pending cases. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation is costly to manage, investigate and defend, and the related defense costs, diversion of management’s time and related publicity may adversely affect the conduct of our business and the results of our operations. 12 ROTO-ROOTER We face intense competition from numerous, fragmented competitors. If we do not compete effectively, our business may suffer. We face intense competition from numerous competitors. The sewer, drain and pipe cleaning, excavation, plumbing repair and water restoration businesses are highly fragmented, with the bulk of the industries consisting of local and regional competitors. We compete primarily on the basis of advertising, range of services provided, name recognition, availability of emergency service, speed and quality of customer service, service guarantees and pricing. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products and services more successful than ours and in marketing and selling existing and new products and services better than we do. In addition, new competitors may emerge. We cannot make any assurances that we will continue to be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to franchising, insurance and other aspects of our business. These are discussed in greater detail under “Government Regulations” in the Description of Business section hereof. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines and sanctions. Our franchising activities are subject to various federal and state franchising laws and regulations, including the rules and regulations of the FTC regarding the offering or sale of franchises. These rules and regulations require us to provide all of our prospective franchisees with specific information regarding us and our franchise program in the form of a detailed franchise offering circular. In addition, a number of states require us to register our franchise offering prior to offering or selling franchises in such states. Various state laws also provide for certain rights in favor of franchisees, including (i) limitations on the franchisor’s ability to terminate a franchise except for good cause, (ii) restrictions on the franchisor’s ability to deny renewal of a franchise, (iii) circumstances under which the franchisor may be required to purchase certain inventory of franchisees when a franchise is terminated or not renewed in violation of such laws and (iv) provisions relating to arbitration. The ability to engage in the plumbing repair business is also subject to certain limitations and restrictions imposed by the state and local licensing laws and regulations. We cannot predict what legislation or regulations affecting our business will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered and interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that may be required to comply with these laws or regulations. Compliance costs associated with governmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Roto-Rooter’s loss of key management personnel or its inability to hire and retain skilled employees could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Roto-Rooter’s future success significantly depends upon the continued service of its senior management personnel. The loss of one or more of Roto-Rooter’s key senior management personnel or its inability to hire and retain new skilled employees could negatively impact its ability to maintain or increase customer calls and jobs, a key aspect of its growth strategy, and could adversely affect its future operating results. Competition for skilled employees, particularly licensed plumbers, is intense, and the process of locating and recruiting skilled employees with the combination of qualifications and attributes required to adequately perform plumbing duties can be difficult and lengthy. We cannot assure you that Roto-Rooter will be successful in attracting, retaining or training highly skilled personnel. Roto-Rooter’s business could be disrupted and its growth and profitability negatively impacted if it is unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Cybersecurity In the normal course of business, our information technology systems hold sensitive customer information including names, addresses and partial credit card information. Additionally, we utilize those same systems to perform our day-to-day activities, such as receiving customer calls, dispatching technicians to jobs and maintaining an accurate record of all transactions. We have not experienced any known attacks on our information technology systems that compromised customer data or the Company’s proprietary data. We maintain our information technology systems with safeguard protection against cyber-attacks including intrusion detection and protection services, firewalls and virus detection software. Additionally, on a quarterly basis, we test our information technology systems using cyber-attack software and methods to learn how a successful attack may be made. We remedy any issues encountered during these tests. However, these safeguards do not ensure that a significant cyber-attack could not occur. A successful attack on our information technology systems could have significant consequences to the business including liability for compromised customer information and business interruption. 13 Roto-Rooter’s success is highly dependent on its brand reputation Roto-Rooter’s national reputation and brand image for performing necessary, high quality services in a timely manner is critical to Roto-Rooter’s continued success. Adverse publicity, litigation or on-line negative reviews focused on the Roto-Rooter brand could negatively impact Roto-Rooter’s national reputation resulting in decreased future demand for Roto-Rooter branded services. Roto-Rooter maintains a reputation management risk program, however, a loss of brand reputation at Roto-Rooter could adversely affect consumer willingness to use our service and thus, adversely affect our future operating performance. VITAS VITAS is highly dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. If there are changes in the rate or methods governing these payments, VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profits could materially decline. In excess of 95% of VITAS’ net patient service revenue consists of payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Such payments are made primarily on a “per diem” basis, subject to annual reimbursement caps. Because VITAS receives a per diem fee to provide eligible services to all patients, VITAS’ profitability is largely dependent upon its ability to manage the costs of providing hospice services to patients. Increases in operating costs, such as labor and supply costs that are subject to inflation, without a compensating increase in Medicare and Medicaid rates, could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business in the future. Medicare and Medicaid currently adjust the various hospice payment rates annually based primarily on the increase or decrease of the hospital wage index basket, regionally adjusted. However, the increases may be less than actual inflation. VITAS’ profitability could be negatively impacted if this adjustment were eliminated or reduced, or if VITAS’ costs of providing hospice services increased more than the annual adjustment. In addition, cost pressures resulting from shorter patient lengths of stay and the use of more expensive forms of palliative care, including drugs and drug delivery systems, could negatively impact VITAS’ profitability. Many payors are increasing pressure to control health care costs. In addition, both public and private payors are increasing pressure to decrease, or limit increases in, reimbursement rates for health care services. VITAS’ levels of revenue and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible reductions in coverage or payment rates by third-party payors, including payment rates from Medicare and Medicaid. Each state that maintains a Medicaid program has the option to provide reimbursement for hospice services at reimbursement rates generally required to be at least as much as Medicare rates. All states in which VITAS operates cover Medicaid hospice services; however, we cannot assure you that the states in which VITAS is presently operating or states into which VITAS could expand operations will continue to cover Medicaid hospice services. In addition, the Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective rate and payment adjustments, administrative rulings, freezes and funding reductions, all of which may adversely affect the level of program payments and could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business. We cannot assure that Medicare and/or Medicaid payments to hospices will not decrease. Reductions in amounts paid by government programs for services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments could cause VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profits to materially decline. Approximately 20% of VITAS’ days of care are provided to patients who reside in nursing homes. Changes in the laws and regulations regarding payments for hospice services and “room and board” provided to VITAS’ hospice patients residing in nursing homes could reduce its net patient service revenue and profitability. For VITAS’ hospice patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs who elect hospice care under Medicare and Medicaid, the state generally must pay VITAS, in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem rate, an amount equal to at least 95% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” furnished to the patient by the nursing home. VITAS contracts with various nursing homes for the nursing homes’ provision of certain “room and board” services that the nursing homes would otherwise provide Medicaid nursing home patients. VITAS bills and collects from the applicable state Medicaid program an amount equal to approximately 95% of the amount that would otherwise have been paid directly to the nursing home under the state’s Medicaid plan. Under VITAS’ standard nursing home contracts, it pays the nursing home for these “room and board” services at approximately 100% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. The reduction or elimination of Medicare and Medicaid payments for hospice patients residing in nursing homes would reduce VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profitability. In addition, changes in the way nursing homes are reimbursed for “room and board” services provided to hospice patients residing in nursing homes could affect VITAS’ ability to serve patients in nursing homes. 14 If VITAS is unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, VITAS’ growth and profitability could be adversely affected. VITAS’ success is heavily dependent on referrals from physicians, long-term care facilities, hospitals and other institutional health care providers, managed care companies, insurance companies and other patient referral sources in the communities that its hospice locations serve, as well as on its ability to maintain good relations with these referral sources. VITAS’ referral sources may refer their patients to other hospice care providers or not to a hospice provider at all. VITAS’ growth and profitability depend significantly on its ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of hospice care by its referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure that VITAS will be able to maintain its existing relationships or that it will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. VITAS’ loss of existing relationships or its failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect its ability to expand or maintain its operations and operate profitably. Moreover, we cannot assure you that awareness or acceptance of hospice care will increase or remain at current levels. VITAS operates in an industry that is subject to extensive government regulation and claims reviews, and changes in law and regulatory interpretations could reduce its net patient service revenue and profitability and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to, among others: ● Payment for services; ● Conduct of operations, including fraud and abuse, anti-kickback prohibitions, self-referral prohibitions and false claims; ● Privacy and security of medical records; ● Employment practices; and ● Various state approval requirements, such as facility and professional licensure, certificate of need, compliance surveys and other certification or recertification requirements. Changes in these laws, rules and regulations or in interpretations thereof could reduce VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profitability. VITAS’ ability to comply with such regulations is a key factor in determining the success of its business. See the “Government Regulations” section of this 10-K for a greater description of these matters. Fraud and Abuse Laws. VITAS contracts with a significant number of health care providers and practitioners, including physicians, hospitals and nursing homes and arranges for these entities to provide services to VITAS’ patients. Some of these health care providers and practitioners may refer, or be in a position to refer, patients to VITAS (or VITAS may refer patients to them). These arrangements may not qualify for a safe harbor. VITAS from time to time seeks guidance from regulatory counsel as to the changing and evolving interpretations and the potential applicability of the Anti-Kickback Law to its programs, and in response thereto, takes such actions as it deems appropriate. VITAS generally believes that its contracts and arrangements with providers, practitioners and suppliers should not be found to violate the Anti-Kickback Law. However, we cannot assure you that such laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with VITAS’ practices. Several health care reform proposals have included an expansion of the Anti-Kickback Law to include referrals of any patients regardless of payor source, which is similar to the scope of certain laws that have been enacted at the state level. In addition, a number of states in which VITAS operates have laws, which vary from state to state, prohibiting certain direct or indirect remuneration or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers, regardless of payor source, for the referral of patients to a particular provider. The federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act, Section 1877 of the Social Security Act (commonly known as the “Stark Law”) prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients for “designated health services” to entities in which they hold an ownership or investment interest or with whom they have a compensation arrangement, subject to certain statutory or regulatory exceptions. We cannot assure you that future statutory or regulatory changes will not result in hospice services being subject to the Stark Law’s ownership, investment, compensation or referral prohibitions. Several states in which VITAS operates have similar laws which likewise are subject to change. Any such changes could adversely affect the business, financial condition and operating results of VITAS. 15 Further, under separate statutes, submission of claims for items or services that are “not provided as claimed” may lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded state health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government, known as a qui tam action, alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. See the discussion of the governmental investigations and litigation pending against VITAS under Other Healthcare Regulations, above and Legal Proceedings, below. Certificate of Need Laws. Many states, including Florida, have certificate of need laws or other similar health planning laws that apply to hospice care providers. These states may require some form of state agency review or approval prior to opening a new hospice program, to adding or expanding hospice services, to undertaking significant capital expenditures or under other specified circumstances. Approval under these certificate of need laws is generally conditioned on the showing of a demonstrable need for services in the community. VITAS may seek to develop, acquire or expand hospice programs in states having certificate of need laws. To the extent that state agencies require VITAS to obtain a certificate of need or other similar approvals to expand services at existing hospice programs or to make acquisitions or develop hospice programs in new or existing geographical markets, VITAS’ plans could be adversely affected by a failure to obtain a certificate or approval. In addition, competitors may seek administratively or judicially to challenge such an approval or proposed approval by the state agency. Such a challenge, whether or not ultimately successful, could adversely affect VITAS. Other Federal and State Regulations. The federal government and all states regulate various aspects of the hospice industry and VITAS’ business. In particular, VITAS’ operations are subject to federal and state health regulatory laws, including those covering professional services, the dispensing of drugs and certain types of hospice activities. Certain of VITAS’ employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing professional practice. VITAS’ operations are subject to periodic survey by governmental authorities and private accrediting entities to assure compliance with applicable state licensing, and Medicare and Medicaid certification and accreditation standards, as the case may be. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, VITAS receives survey reports noting deficiencies for alleged failure to comply with applicable requirements. VITAS reviews such reports and takes appropriate corrective action. The failure to effect such action could result in one of VITAS’ hospice programs being terminated from the Medicare hospice program. Any termination of one or more of VITAS’ hospice locations from the Medicare hospice program could adversely affect VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profitability and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The failure to obtain, renew or maintain any of the required regulatory approvals, certifications or licenses could materially adversely affect VITAS’ business and could prevent the programs involved from offering products and services to patients. In addition, laws and regulations often are adopted to regulate new products, services and industries. We cannot assure you that either the states or the federal government will not impose additional regulations on VITAS’ activities, which might materially adversely affect VITAS, including impairing the value of its brand. Claims Review. The Medicare and Medicaid programs and their fiscal intermediaries and other payors periodically conduct pre-payment or post-payment reviews and other reviews and audits of health care claims, including hospice claims. As a result of such reviews or audits, VITAS could be required to return any amounts found to be overpaid, or amounts found to be overpaid could be recouped through reductions in future payments. There is pressure from state and federal governments and other payors to scrutinize health care claims to determine their validity and appropriateness. VITAS’ claims have been subject to review and audit. We cannot assure you that reviews and/or similar audits of VITAS’ claims will not result in material recoupments, denials or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion of OIG investigations pending against VITAS under Other Health Care Regulations, above. Regulation and Provision of Continuous Home Care. VITAS provides continuous home care to patients requiring such care. Continuous home care is provided to allow the patient to remain in their home, during periods of crisis when intensive monitoring and care, primarily nursing care, is required in order to achieve palliation or management of acute medical symptoms. Continuous home care requires a minimum of 8 hours of care within a 24-hour day, which begins and ends at midnight. The care must be predominantly nursing care provided by either a registered nurse or licensed practical nurse. Continuous home care can be challenging for a hospice to provide for a number of reasons, including the need to have available sufficient skilled and trained staff to furnish such care, the need to manage the staffing and provision of such care, and a shortage of nurses that can make it particularly difficult to attract and retain nurses that are required to furnish a majority of such care. Medicare reimbursement for continuous home care has been calculated by multiplying the applicable continuous home care hourly rate by the number of hours of care provided. If the care was provided for less than one hour, Medicare requires reporting in 15-minute increments of care provided, with no rounding. 16 Medicare reimbursement for continuous home care is subject to a number of requirements posing further challenges for a hospice providing such care. For example, if a patient requires skilled interventions for palliation or symptom management that can be accomplished in less than 8 aggregate hours within the 24-hour period, if the majority of care can be accomplished by someone other than a registered nurse or a licensed practical nurse (e.g., if a majority of care is furnished by a home health aide or homemaker), or if for any reason less than 8 hours of direct care are provided (such as when a patient dies before 8 AM even if 7 or more hours of care has been provided), the care rendered cannot be reimbursed by Medicare at the continuous home care rate (although the care instead may be eligible for Medicare reimbursement at the reduced routine home care day rate). As a result of such requirements, VITAS may incur the costs of providing services intended to be continuous home care services yet be unable to bill or be reimbursed for such services at the continuous home care rate. We cannot assure you that challenges in providing continuous home care will not cause VITAS’ net patient service revenue and profits to materially decline or that reviews and/or similar audits of VITAS’ claims will not result in material recoupments, denials or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance. VITAS maintains an internal regulatory compliance review program and from time to time retains regulatory counsel for guidance on compliance matters. We cannot assure you, however, that VITAS’ practices, if reviewed, would be found to be in compliance with applicable health regulatory laws, as such laws ultimately may be interpreted, or that any non-compliance with such laws would not have a material adverse effect on VITAS. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could require VITAS to expend substantial sums on acquiring, implementing and supporting new information systems, which could negatively impact its profitability. There are currently numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the state and federal levels that address patient privacy concerns. We cannot predict the total financial or other impact of the regulations on VITAS’ operations. In addition, although VITAS’ management believes it is in compliance with the requirement of patient privacy regulations, we cannot assure you that VITAS will not be found to have violated state and federal laws, rules or guidelines surrounding patient privacy. Compliance with current and future HIPAA and HITECH requirements or any other federal or state privacy initiatives could require VITAS to make substantial investments, which could negatively impact its profitability and cash flows. VITAS’ growth strategies may not be successful, which could adversely affect its business. A significant element of VITAS’ growth strategy is expected to include expansion of its business in new and existing markets. This aspect of VITAS’ growth strategy may not be successful, which could adversely impact its growth and profitability. We cannot assure you that VITAS will be able to: ● Identify markets that meet its selection criteria for new hospice locations; ● Hire and retain qualified management teams to operate each of its new hospice locations; ● Manage a large and geographically diverse group of hospice locations; ● Become Medicare and Medicaid certified in new markets; ● Generate sufficient hospice admissions to operate profitably in these new markets; ● Compete effectively with existing hospices in new markets; or ● Obtain state licensure and/or a certificate of need from appropriate state agencies in new markets. VITAS’ loss of key management personnel or its inability to hire and retain skilled employees could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. VITAS’ future success significantly depends upon the continued service of its senior management personnel. The loss of one or more of VITAS’ key senior management personnel or its inability to hire and retain new skilled employees could negatively impact VITAS’ ability to maintain or increase patient referrals, a key aspect of its growth strategy, and could adversely affect its future operating results. 17 Competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of locating and recruiting skilled employees with the combination of qualifications and attributes required to care effectively for terminally ill patients and their families can be difficult and lengthy. We cannot assure you that VITAS will be successful in attracting, retaining or training highly skilled nursing, management, community education, operations, admissions and other personnel. VITAS’ business could be disrupted and its growth and profitability negatively impacted if it is unable to attract and retain skilled employees. A nationwide shortage of qualified nurses could adversely affect VITAS’ profitability, growth and ability to continue to provide quality, responsive hospice services to its patients as nursing wages and benefits increase. Approximately 40% of VITAS’ workforce is licensed nurses. VITAS depends on qualified nurses to provide quality, responsive hospice services to its patients. The current nationwide shortage of qualified nurses impacts some of the markets in which VITAS provides hospice services. In response to this shortage, VITAS has adjusted its wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and to engage contract nurses. VITAS’ inability to attract and retain qualified nurses could adversely affect its ability to provide quality, responsive hospice services to its patients and its ability to increase or maintain patient census in those markets. Increases in the wages and benefits required to attract and retain qualified nurses or an increase in reliance on contract nurses could negatively impact profitability. VITAS may not be able to compete successfully against other hospice providers, and competitive pressures may limit its ability to maintain or increase its market position and adversely affect its profitability, financial condition and results of operations. Hospice care in the United States is highly competitive. In many areas in which VITAS’ hospices are located, they compete with a large number of organizations, including: ● Community-based hospice providers; ● National and regional companies; ● Hospital-based hospice and palliative care programs; ● Physician groups; ● Nursing homes; ● Home health agencies; ● Infusion therapy companies; and ● Nursing agencies. Various health care companies have diversified into the hospice industry. Other companies, including hospitals and health care organizations that are not currently providing hospice care, may enter the markets VITAS serves and expand the variety of services offered to include hospice care. We cannot assure you that VITAS will not encounter increased competition in the future that could limit its ability to maintain or increase its market position, including competition from parties in a position to impact referrals to VITAS. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in rates or methods of payment for VITAS’ services could adversely affect its revenues and profits. Managed care organizations have grown substantially in terms of the percentage of the population they cover and their control over an increasing portion of the health care economy. Managed care organizations have continued to consolidate to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to exert pressure to control health care costs. VITAS has a number of contractual arrangements with managed care organizations and other similar parties. VITAS provides hospice care to many Medicare beneficiaries who receive their non-hospice health care services from health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”) under Medicare risk contracts. Under such contracts between HMOs and the federal Department of Health and Human Services, the Medicare payments for hospice services are excluded from the per-member, per-month payment from Medicare to HMOs and instead are paid directly by Medicare to the hospices. As a result, VITAS’ payments for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare risk HMOs are processed in the same way with the same rates as other Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot assure, however, that payment for hospice services will continue to be excluded from HMO payment under Medicare risk contracts and similar Medicare managed care plans or that if not excluded, managed care organizations or other large third-party payors would not use their power to influence and exert pressure on health care providers to reduce costs in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Liability claims may have an adverse effect on VITAS, and its insurance coverage may be inadequate. Participants in the hospice industry are subject to lawsuits alleging negligence, product liability or other similar legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. From time to time, VITAS is subject to such and other types of lawsuits. See the description below under Legal Proceedings. The ultimate liability for claims, if any, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or operating results. Although VITAS currently maintains liability insurance intended to cover the claims, we cannot assure you that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by the insurance. In addition, VITAS’ insurance policies must be renewed annually and may be subject to cancellation during the policy period. While VITAS has been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, such insurance varies in cost, and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to VITAS, if at all. A successful claim in excess of the insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on VITAS. Claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also may have a material adverse effect on VITAS’ business and reputation due to the costs of litigation, diversion of management’s time and related publicity. VITAS procures professional liability coverage on a claims-made basis. The insurance contracts specify that coverage is available only during the term of each insurance contract. VITAS’ management intends to renew or replace the existing claims-made policy annually but such coverage is difficult to obtain, may be subject to cancellation and may be written by carriers that are unable, or unwilling to pay claims Certain claims have been asserted where the coverage would be the responsibility of this prior carrier and/or other carriers that may not have the financial wherewithal to satisfy the claims. Additionally, some risks and liabilities, including claims for punitive damages, are not covered by insurance. Cybersecurity In the normal course of business, our information technology systems hold sensitive patient information including patient demographic data, eligibility for various medical plans including Medicare and Medicaid and protected health information. Additionally, we utilize those same systems to perform our day-to-day activities, such as receiving referrals, assigning medical teams to patients, documenting medical information and maintaining an accurate record of all transactions. We have not experienced any known attacks on our information technology systems that have compromised patient data or the Company’s proprietary data. We maintain our information technology systems with safeguard protection against cyber-attacks including active intrusion protection, firewalls and virus detection software. As discussed previously, we are subject to and comply with HIPPA and HITECH regulations. However, these safeguards do not ensure that a significant cyber-attack could not occur. A successful attack on our information technology systems could have significant consequences to the business including liability for compromised patient information and business interruption. VITAS’ success is highly dependent on its brand reputation VITAS’ reputation for performing quality routine and high acuity patient hospice care within the regulations mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial payors is critical to our success. Failure to provide quality patient care within the regulations mandated by our third-party payors, or the perception of inappropriate care resulting in adverse publicity, litigation or a campaign of negative on-line reviews are some of the factors that could negatively impact VITAS’ national reputation. VITAS maintains a reputation management risk program however, a loss of brand reputation at VITAS could adversely affect referral sources’ willingness to refer our service and thus, adversely affect our future operating performance. VITAS’ headquarters and a significant portion of its operations are in south Florida The occurrence of a natural disaster in any region that VITAS has significant operations could have a negative impact on the business. VITAS’ headquarters are located in Miami, Florida. In addition, two of our largest programs are in south Florida. The location of our headquarters and these large programs increases our exposure to hurricanes. A major hurricane in south Florida could impede our ability to bill for our services, operate our businesses and serve our patients’ in the affected area. VITAS maintains a disaster recovery program to mitigate this risk however, natural disasters could have an adverse affect on our future operating performance. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 