Risk factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described in Item 1A ("Risk Factors") of this report; changes in banking laws and regulations; changes in tax laws; changes in prices, levies and assessments; the impact of technological advances and issues; governmental and regulatory policy changes; opportunities for acquisitions and the effective completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired entities; and the local and global effects of the ongoing war on terrorism and other military actions, including actions in Iraq. These are representative of the risk factors that could cause a difference between an ultimate actual outcome and a preceding forward-looking statement. PART I Item 1. Business. Chemical Financial Corporation ("Chemical" or the "Corporation") is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and incorporated in the State of Michigan. Chemical was organized under Michigan law in August 1973, and is headquartered in Midland, Michigan. Chemical was substantially inactive until June 30, 1974, when it acquired Chemical Bank and Trust Company (CBT), pursuant to a reorganization in which the former shareholders of CBT became shareholders of Chemical. In addition to the acquisition of CBT, the Corporation acquired nineteen community banks and thirteen branch bank offices through December 31, 2005 and had consolidated these acquisitions into three commercial bank subsidiaries. The Corporation completed a corporate organizational restructuring on December 31, 2005 which consolidated its three commercial bank charters into one commercial bank charter. Chemical Bank Shoreline, headquartered in Benton Harbor, Michigan and Chemical Bank West, headquartered in the Grand Rapids area of Michigan, were merged into the Corporation's remaining commercial bank subsidiary, CBT, headquartered in Midland, Michigan. CBT's name was changed to Chemical Bank on December 31, 2005. Chemical's sole bank subsidiary, Chemical Bank, will continue to operate through an organizational structure of community banks. The organizational restructuring included changes in the responsibilities of certain executive officers to place a greater emphasis on internal growth initiatives. These executive officer position changes became effective on January 1, 2006 and are discussed herein under the heading "Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant." The Corporation directly owns two non-bank subsidiaries: CFC Financial Services, Inc. and CFC Title Services, Inc. CFC Financial Services, Inc. is an insurance subsidiary that operates under the assumed name of CFC Investment Centers (a provider of mutual funds and annuity products to customers). In December 2004, the Corporation sold its property and casualty agency book of business and discontinued the use of "Chemical Financial Insurance Agency" at that time. CFC Title Services, Inc. is an issuer of title insurance to buyers and sellers of residential and commercial mortgage properties, including properties subject to loan refinancing. At December 31, 2005, Chemical was the fourth largest bank holding company headquartered in Michigan, measured by total assets, and together with its subsidiaries, employed a total of 1,376 full-time equivalent employees. Chemical's business is concentrated in a single industry segment - commercial banking. Chemical's bank subsidiary offers a full range of commercial banking and fiduciary products and services. These include business and personal 2 checking accounts, savings and individual retirement accounts, time deposit instruments, electronically accessed banking products, residential and commercial real estate financing, commercial lending, consumer financing, debit cards, safe deposit services, automated teller machines, access to insurance and investment products, money transfer services, corporate and personal trust services and other banking services. The principal markets for these financial services are the communities within Michigan in which the branches of Chemical's bank subsidiary are located and the areas surrounding these communities. As of December 31, 2005, Chemical and its bank subsidiary served these markets through 132 banking offices and one loan production office across 32 counties, all in the lower peninsula of Michigan. In addition to the banking offices, the subsidiary bank operated 132 automated teller machines, both on- and off-bank premises, as of December 31, 2005. Chemical Bank's largest loan category is residential real estate mortgages. At December 31, 2005, residential real estate loans totaled $789 million, or 29.1% of consolidated total loans. Residential real estate loans increased $27.8 million or 3.7% during 2005. The increase in residential real estate loans during 2005 was primarily attributable to growth in the adjustable interest rate loan type that includes a fixed interest rate period for three, five or seven years. Market interest rates on this type of loan decreased during 2005 making these loans more attractive to customers. The Corporation generally keeps adjustable interest rate loans in its loan portfolio, rather than selling them in the secondary mortgage market. The Corporation's general practice is to sell residential real estate loan originations with maturities of fifteen years and longer in the secondary market. The Corporation sold $111 million of long-term fixed rate residential real estate loans during 2005. This compares with $153 million and $409 million of residential real estate loans sold during 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease in loans sold in 2005 was attributable to the continuing decline in residential loan refinancing volume and the growth in adjustable interest rate residential real estate loans that are kept in the loan portfolio. The Corporation realized growth in commercial and real estate commercial loans in 2005, as the focus over the past three years has been to increase such loans. Commercial loans increased $48.9 million, or 10.4%, and real estate commercial loans increased $6.9 million, or 1.0%, during 2005. Commercial and real estate commercial loans combined comprised 45.1%, 45.1% and 41.7% of consolidated total loans as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The principal source of revenue for Chemical is interest and fees on loans, which accounted for 69% of total revenues in 2005, 67% of total revenues in 2004 and 65% of total revenues in 2003. Interest on securities is also a significant source of revenue, accounting for 13% of total revenues in 2005, 15% of total revenues in 2004 and 17% of total revenues in 2003. Chemical has no foreign loans, assets or activities. No material part of the business of Chemical or its subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. The business of banking is highly competitive. In addition to competition from other commercial banks, banks face significant competition from nonbank financial institutions. Savings associations and credit unions compete aggressively with commercial banks for deposits and loans, and credit unions and finance companies are particularly significant factors in the consumer loan market. Banks compete for deposits with a broad range of other types of investments, the most significant of which, over the past few years, have been mutual funds and annuities. Insurance companies and investment firms are also significant competitors for customer deposits. In response to this increased competition for customers' bank deposits, the Corporation's subsidiary bank, through CFC Investment Centers, offers a broad array of mutual funds, annuity products and market securities through an alliance with an independent, registered broker/dealer. In addition, the Trust and Investment Management Services department (Trust Department) of Chemical Bank offers customers a variety of investment products and services. The principal methods of competition for financial services are price (interest rates paid on deposits, interest rates charged on loans and fees charged for services) and service (convenience and quality of services rendered to customers). The nature of the business of Chemical's bank subsidiary is such that it holds title to numerous parcels of real property. These properties are primarily owned for branch offices; however, Chemical and its bank subsidiary may hold properties for other business purposes, as well as on a temporary basis for properties taken in, or in lieu of foreclosure, to satisfy loans in default. Under current state and federal laws, present and past owners of real property may be exposed to liability for the cost of clean up of contamination on or originating from those properties, even if they are wholly innocent 3 of the actions that caused the contamination. These liabilities can be material and can exceed the value of the contaminated property. Supervision and Regulation Banks and bank holding companies are extensively regulated. As of December 31, 2005, Chemical's sole bank subsidiary, Chemical Bank, was chartered by the State of Michigan and supervised, examined and regulated by the Michigan Office of Financial and Insurance Services. Chemical Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and supervised, examined and regulated by the Federal Reserve System. Deposits of Chemical Bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to the extent provided by law. Chemical has elected to be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. State banks and bank holding companies are governed by both federal and state laws that significantly limit their business activities in a number of respects. Examples of such limitations include: (1) prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, and in some cases various other governing agencies, is required for bank holding companies to acquire control of any additional bank holding companies, banks or branches, (2) the business activities of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are limited to banking and to other activities which are determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking, and (3) transactions between bank holding company subsidiary banks are significantly restricted by banking laws and regulations. Somewhat broader activities are permitted for qualifying financial holding companies, such as Chemical, and "financial subsidiaries." Chemical currently does not have any subsidiaries that have elected to qualify as "financial subsidiaries." Chemical is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary bank and non-bank subsidiaries. Chemical's primary source of funds is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. Federal and state banking laws and regulations limit both the extent to which Chemical's subsidiary bank can lend or otherwise supply funds to Chemical or certain of its affiliates and also place certain restrictions on the amount of dividends the subsidiary bank of Chemical may pay to Chemical. Banks are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations that have a material impact on their business. These include, among others, minimum capital requirements, state usury laws, state laws relating to fiduciaries, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the USA Patriot Act, electronic funds transfer laws, redlining laws, predatory lending laws, antitrust laws, environmental laws, anti-money laundering laws and privacy laws. These laws and regulations can have a significant effect on the operating results of banks. To recharacterize itself as a financial holding company and to avail itself of the broader powers permitted for financial holding companies, a bank holding company must meet certain regulatory standards for being "well capitalized," "well-managed" and "satisfactory" in its Community Reinvestment Act compliance. The Corporation became a financial holding company in 2000. Under Federal law, the FDIC has the authority to impose special assessments on insured depository institutions to repay FDIC borrowings from the United States Treasury or other sources, and to establish semi-annual assessment rates on Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) member banks, so as to maintain the BIF at the designated reserve ratio defined by law. The semi-annual assessment rate of the FDIC is based upon a system of risk-based premiums for deposit insurance, pursuant to which the premiums paid by a depository institution are based on the probability that the BIF will incur a loss in respect of such institution. The recapitalization of the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) was accomplished through the enactment of The Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 (Funds Act). This legislation authorized the Financing Corporation (FICO) to impose periodic assessments on depository institutions that are members of the BIF, in addition to institutions that are members of the SAIF. The purpose of these periodic assessments is to spread the cost of the interest payments on the outstanding FICO bonds over a larger number of institutions. Until the change in the law, only SAIF-member institutions bore the cost of funding these interest payments. FDIC premiums, which consisted exclusively of the FICO assessment, were $0.41 million in 2005, $0.44 million in 2004 and $0.45 million in 2003. 4 Federal law also contains a "cross-guarantee" provision that could result in insured depository institutions owned by Chemical being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by Chemical. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, Chemical is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support its subsidiary bank. Banks are subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA). Under the terms of the CRA, the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The regulatory agency's assessment of the bank's record is made available to the public. Further, such assessment is required of any bank that has applied to: (1) obtain deposit insurance coverage for a newly chartered institution, (2) establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, (3) relocate an office, or (4) merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of, a federally regulated financial institution. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or another bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the CRA compliance record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such compliance records may be the basis for denying the application. Bank holding companies may acquire banks located in any state in the United States without regard to geographic restrictions or reciprocity requirements imposed by state law. Banks may establish interstate branch networks through acquisitions of other banks. The establishment of de novo interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is allowed only if specifically authorized by state law. Michigan permits both U.S. and non-U.S. banks to establish branch offices in Michigan. The Michigan Banking Code permits, in appropriate circumstances and with the approval of the Michigan Office of Financial and Insurance Services (1) acquisition of Michigan banks by FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states, (2) sale by a Michigan bank of branches to an FDIC-insured bank, savings bank or savings and loan association located in a state in which a Michigan bank could purchase branches of the purchasing entity, (3) consolidation of Michigan banks and FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states having laws permitting such consolidation, (4) establishment of branches in Michigan by FDIC-insured banks located in other states, the District of Columbia or U.S. territories or protectorates having laws permitting a Michigan bank to establish a branch in such jurisdiction, and (5) establishment by foreign banks of bran ches located in Michigan. Mergers, Acquisitions, Consolidations and Divestitures The following is a summary of the business combinations, consolidations and divestitures completed during the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. The Corporation completed a corporate organizational restructuring on December 31, 2005 which consolidated its three commercial bank charters into one commercial bank charter. Chemical Bank Shoreline, headquartered in Benton Harbor, Michigan and Chemical Bank West, headquartered in the Grand Rapids area of Michigan, were merged into the Corporation's remaining commercial bank subsidiary, CBT, headquartered in Midland, Michigan. CBT's name was changed to Chemical Bank on December 31, 2005. On October 22, 2004, CBT sold its branch bank office located in Frandor, Michigan to Republic Bank. The branch had total deposits of approximately $6 million as of the date of sale. In December 2004, the Corporation sold its property and casualty insurance book of business. The Corporation acquired Caledonia Financial Corporation (Caledonia), a one-bank holding company headquartered in Caledonia, Michigan, on December 1, 2003. As of that date, Caledonia had total assets of $211 million, total loans of $184 million, total deposits of $171 million and shareholders' equity of $22.3 million. Shareholders of Caledonia received $39.00 cash for each share of Caledonia common stock in a taxable transaction. The total value of the transaction was approximately $56.8 million, of which $52.3 million was paid in cash and $4.5 million represented the value of stock options. The purchase price represented a premium over book value of $34.5 million. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting; therefore, the financial results of Caledonia's operations are included from the acquisition date, with no restatement of prior period amounts. 5 On September 30, 2003, the Corporation consolidated CFC Data Corp, its wholly-owned data processing subsidiary, into the parent. The information under the following captions in the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, further describes the business of Chemical and is here incorporated by reference (tables are included under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis"): Caption Pages Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data 2 Table 1. Average Balances, Tax Equivalent Interest and Effective Yields and Rates 7 Table 2. Volume and Rate Variance Analysis 8 Table 3. Summary of Loans and Loan Loss Experience 11 Table 4. Comparison of Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity 12 Table 5. Nonperforming Assets 13 Table 6. Allocation of the Allowance For Loan Losses 17 Table 7. Noninterest Income 17 Table 8. Operating Expenses 18 Table 9. Maturities and Yields of Investment Securities at December 31, 2005 21 Table 10. Summary of Investment Securities 21 Table 11. Maturity Analysis of Investment Securities 22 Management's Discussion and Analysis subheadings: "Net Interest Income," "Loans," "Nonperforming Assets," "Provision and Allowance For Loan Losses," "Liquidity Risk" and "Market Risk" 7-24 Table 12. Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 22 Table 13. Financial Obligations 23 Table 14. Commitments 23 Note C - Investment Securities 41-43 Note E - Loans 44-45 Note J - Short-term Borrowings 49 Chemical's internet website is located at www.chemicalbankmi.com. Chemical provides, free of charge in the "Investor Information" section of its website, copies of all periodic reports and amendments to such reports that Chemical files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Chemical posts such reports to its website as soon as reasonably practicable after each report has been filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Corporation's business model is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Although the Corporation seeks ways to manage these risks and develop programs to control those that management can, the Corporation ultimately cannot predict the future. Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. Some of these significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties of which the Corporation is unaware, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Corporation and its business. If any of these risks were to occur, the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 Investments in Chemical common stock involve risk. The market price of Chemical common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results • Changes in interest rates • New developments in the banking industry • Regulatory actions • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes • Changes in market valuations of similar companies • Changes in securities analysts' estimates of financial performance • New litigation or contingencies or changes in existing litigation or contingencies • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies • Rumors or erroneous information Asset quality could be less favorable than expected. A significant source of risk for the Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Corporation are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when in fact it is not. General economic conditions in the state of Michigan could be less favorable than expected. The Corporation is affected by general economic conditions in the United States, although most directly within Michigan. A further economic downturn within Michigan could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. This impact may lead to decreased demand for both loan and deposit products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. If Chemical does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. Chemical's ability to maintain its historically stable and consistent financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to maintain and grow its core deposit customer base and expand its financial services to its existing customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include credit unions, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in the economic environment within the state of Michigan, regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. New competitors may emerge to increase the degree of competition for Chemical's customers and services. Financial services and products are also constantly changing. Chemicals financial performance will also depend in part upon customer demand for Chemical's products and services and Chemical' s ability to develop and offer competitive financial products and services. Changes in interest rates could reduce Chemical's income and cash flow. Chemical's income and cash flow depends, to a great extent, on the difference between the interest earned on loans and securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Market interest rates are beyond Chemical's control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory 7 agencies including, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates and interest rate relationships, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rate received on loans and securities and paid on deposits and other borrowings. Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance. Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of Chemical and Chemical's common stock. Some of these factors are financial market conditions, changes in financial accounting and reporting standards, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions and losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 