Risk factors relating both to the transaction and the integration of Talmer into the Corporation after closing include, without limitation:•Completion of the transaction is dependent on, among other things, receipt of regulatory approvals and receipt of the Corporation's and Talmer's shareholder approvals, the timing of which cannot be predicted with precision at this point and which may not be received at all. •The impact of the completion of the transaction on the Corporation's financial statements will be affected by the timing of the transaction.•The transaction may be more expensive to complete and the anticipated benefits, including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected or may not be achieved in their entirety as a result of unexpected factors or events.•The integration of Talmer’s business and operations into the Corporation, which will include conversion of Talmer’s operating systems and procedures, may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to the Corporation's or Talmer’s existing businesses.•The Corporation’s ability to achieve anticipated results from the transaction is dependent on the state of the economic and financial markets going forward. Specifically, the Corporation may incur more credit losses than expected and customer attrition may be greater than expected.In addition, risk factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described in Item 1A of this report. These and other factors are representative of the risk factors that may emerge and could cause a difference between an ultimate actual outcome and a preceding forward-looking statement.3Additional Information about the TransactionThe Corporation will file a registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to register the securities that the Talmer shareholders will receive if the transaction is consummated. The registration statement will contain a prospectus for the Corporation and a joint proxy statement to be used by the Corporation and Talmer to solicit the required approvals of their respective shareholders of the merger and other relevant documents concerning the transaction. Chemical and Talmer may also file other documents with the SEC concerning the proposed merger. Before making an investment or voting decision, investors and shareholders of the Corporation and Talmer are urged to read the registration statement, the prospectus and joint proxy statement, and any other relevant documents when they become available because they will contain important information about the Corporation, Talmer, and the transaction. Investors will be able to obtain these documents free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC in connection with the merger can also be obtained, when available, without charge, from the Corporation’s website at www.chemicalbankmi.com, or by contacting Chemical Financial Corporation, 235 East Main Street, P.O. Box 569, Midland, MI 48640-0569, Attention: Ms. Lori A. Gwizdala, Investor Relations, telephone 800-867-9757, or at Talmer’s website at www.talmerbank.com, or by contacting Talmer Bancorp, Inc., 2301 West Big Beaver Road, Suite 525, Troy, Michigan 48084, Attention: Mr. Brad Adams, Investor Relations, telephone 248-498-2862.Participants in the Merger SolicitationThe Corporation and Talmer, and their respective directors, executive officers, and certain other members of management and employees, may be soliciting proxies from the Corporation and Talmer shareholders in favor of the transaction. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the Corporation and Talmer shareholders in connection with the proposed transaction will be set forth in the prospectus and joint proxy statement when it is filed with the SEC. Free copies of this document may be obtained as described above. Information about the Corporation's directors and executive officers can be found in the Corporation's definitive proxy statement in connection with its 2015 annual meeting of shareholders, as filed with the SEC on March 6, 2015, and other documents subsequently filed by the Corporation with the SEC. Information about Talmer’s directors and executive officers can be found in Talmer’s definitive proxy statement in connection with its 2015 annual meeting of shareholders, as filed with the SEC on April 27, 2015, and other documents subsequently filed by Talmer with the SEC. Additional information regarding the interests of such participants will be included in the prospectus and joint proxy statement and other relevant documents regarding the merger filed with the SEC when they become available.4PART I.Item 1. Business.General BusinessChemical Financial Corporation (Corporation), headquartered in Midland, Michigan, is a financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and incorporated in the State of Michigan. At December 31, 2015, the Corporation's consolidated total assets, loans, deposits and shareholders' equity were $9.19 billion, $7.27 billion, $7.46 billion and $1.02 billion, respectively, and the Corporation employed approximately 2,100 full-time equivalent employees. For more information about the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations, see the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The Corporation was incorporated in August 1973. On June 30, 1974, the Corporation acquired Chemical Bank and Trust Company (CBT) pursuant to a reorganization in which the former shareholders of CBT became shareholders of the Corporation. CBT's name was changed to Chemical Bank on December 31, 2005. In addition to the acquisition of CBT, the Corporation has acquired 24 community banks and 36 other branch bank offices through December 31, 2015. The Corporation's most recent transactions include the acquisitions of Lake Michigan Financial Corporation (Lake Michigan) and Monarch Community Bancorp, Inc. (Monarch) during the second quarter of 2015 and the acquisition of Northwestern Bancorp, Inc. (Northwestern) during the fourth quarter of 2014. In addition, on January 25, 2016, the Corporation entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Talmer Bancorp, Inc. (Talmer). Completion of the merger is subject to regulatory approval and the approval of the Corporation's and Talmer's shareholders, in addition to satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. These transactions are discussed in more detail under the subheading "Mergers, Acquisitions and Branch Closings" included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.The Corporation's business is concentrated in a single industry segment - commercial banking. The Corporation conducts its commercial banking activity through a single commercial bank subsidiary, Chemical Bank. Chemical Bank offers a full range of traditional banking and fiduciary products and services. These include business and personal checking accounts, savings and individual retirement accounts, time deposit instruments, electronically accessed banking products, residential and commercial real estate financing, commercial lending, consumer financing, debit cards, safe deposit box services, money transfer services, automated teller machines, access to insurance and investment products, corporate and personal wealth management services and other banking services. Chemical Bank operated through an internal organizational structure of four regional banking units and 18 community banking units as of December 31, 2015. In addition, the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, various non-bank operating and non-operating subsidiaries.The principal markets for the Corporation's products and services are the communities in Michigan where Chemical Bank's branches are located and the areas surrounding these communities. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation and Chemical Bank served these markets through 185 banking offices located in 47 counties in Michigan. In addition to the banking offices, Chemical Bank operated three loan production offices and over 200 automated teller machines, both on- and off-bank premises, as of December 31, 2015.A summary of the composition of the Corporation's loan portfolio at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was as follows: December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total (Dollars in millions)Composition of Loans: Commercial$1,905.9 26% $1,354.9 24% $1,176.3 25%Commercial real estate2,112.2 29 1,557.6 27 1,232.7 27Real estate construction210.2 3 152.7 3 89.8 2Land development21.8 — 18.8 — 20.1 —Residential mortgage1,429.6 20 1,110.4 19 960.4 21Consumer installment877.5 12 829.6 15 644.8 14Home equity713.9 10 664.2 12 523.6 11Total composition of loans$7,271.1 100% $5,688.2 100% $4,647.7 100%The Corporation's loan portfolio totaled $7.27 billion at December 31, 2015, compared to $5.69 billion and $4.65 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Corporation's loan portfolio increased $1.58 billion, or 28%, during 2015, with commercial loans increasing $551 million, or 41%, commercial real estate loans increasing $555 million, or 36%, real estate construction increasing $57 million, or 38%, residential mortgage loans increasing $319 million, or 29%, consumer installment 5loans increasing $48 million, or 6%,home equity loans increasing $50 million, or 7%, and land development loans increasing $3 million, or 17%. The growth in loans during 2015 was attributable to $1.11 billion of loans acquired in the Lake Michigan and Monarch transactions and $476 million of organic loan growth. The Corporation's loan portfolio increased $1.04 billion, or 22%, during 2014, with the increase attributable to $475 million of loans acquired in the Northwestern transaction and $565 million of organic loan growth. The Corporation's organic loan growth during 2015 and 2014 was the result of a combination of improving economic conditions in Michigan and the Corporation increasing its loan market share in its lending markets. The Corporation's loan portfolio is not concentrated in any one industry. The principal source of revenue for the Corporation is interest income and fees on loans, which accounted for 73%, 72% and 71% of total revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Corporation has no foreign loans, assets or activities. No material part of the business of the Corporation or Chemical Bank is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. Interest income on investment securities, services charges and fees on deposit accounts and wealth management revenue are also significant sources of revenue. Interest income on investment securities accounted for 5% of total revenue in 2015 and 6% of total revenue in both 2014 and 2013. Services charges and fees on deposit accounts accounted for 7% of total revenue in 2015 and 8% of total revenue in both 2014 and 2013. Wealth management revenue accounted for 6% of total revenue in both 2015 and 2014 and 5% of total revenue in 2013.The Corporation offers services through the Wealth Management department of Chemical Bank. These services include trust, investment management and custodial services; financial and estate planning; and retirement and employee benefit programs. The Wealth Management department earns revenue largely from fees based on the market value of those assets under management, which can fluctuate as the market fluctuates. The Wealth Management department had assets under custodial and management arrangements of $3.71 billion, $3.73 billion and $2.51 billion as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Wealth Management department also sells investment products (largely annuity products and mutual funds) through its Chemical Financial Advisors program. Customer assets within the Chemical Financial Advisors program were $873 million, $878 million and $737 million as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The growth in assets under management by Chemical Bank's Wealth Management department and assets within the Chemical Financial Advisors program during 2014 was largely attributable to the Northwestern transaction.The nature of the business of Chemical Bank is such that it holds title to numerous parcels of real property. These properties are primarily owned for branch offices. However, the Corporation and Chemical Bank may hold properties for other business purposes, as well as on a temporary basis for properties taken in, or in lieu of, foreclosure to satisfy loans in default. Under current state and federal laws, present and past owners of real property may be exposed to liability for the cost of clean up of contamination on or originating from those properties, even if they are wholly innocent of the actions that caused the contamination. These liabilities could exceed the value of the contaminated property and could be material to the financial condition of the Corporation.Competition The business of banking is highly competitive. The principal methods of competition for financial services are price (interest rates paid on deposits, interest rates charged on loans and fees charged for services) and service (convenience and quality of services rendered to customers). In addition to competition from other commercial banks, banks face significant competition from non-bank financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, insurance companies and investment firms. Credit unions and finance companies are particularly significant competitors in the consumer loan market. Banks also compete for deposits with a broad range of other types of investments, including mutual funds and annuities. Supervision and Regulation The Corporation and Chemical Bank are subject to extensive supervision and regulation under various federal and state laws. The supervisory and regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of shareholders and creditors. Banks are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations that have a material impact on their business. These include, among others, minimum capital requirements, state usury laws, state laws relating to fiduciaries, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act), the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, Office of Foreign Assets Controls regulations, electronic funds transfer laws, redlining laws, predatory lending laws, laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts or practices, antitrust laws, environmental laws, anti-money laundering laws and privacy laws. These laws and regulations can have a significant effect on the operating and financial results of banks. 6A summary of significant elements of some of the laws, regulations and regulatory policies applicable to the Corporation and Chemical Bank follows below. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and policies that are described. These statutes, regulations and policies are continually subject to review by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Corporation and Chemical Bank could have a material effect on the business of the Corporation and Chemical Bank. Regulatory AgenciesThe Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from Chemical Bank. The Corporation is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). The BHC Act provides for general regulation of financial holding companies by the FRB and functional regulation of banking activities by banking regulators. The Corporation is also under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Corporation's common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market® (NASDAQ) under the symbol CHFC and is subject to the NASDAQ Listing Rules. Chemical Bank is chartered by the State of Michigan and supervised, examined and regulated by the Michigan Department of Insurance and Financial Services (DIFS). Chemical Bank, as a member of the Federal Reserve System, is also supervised, examined and regulated by the FRB. Deposits of Chemical Bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to the maximum extent provided by law. Bank Holding Company ActivitiesIn general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the FRB has determined to be closely related to the business of banking. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activities that are financial in nature or complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system without prior approval of the FRB. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments. In order for the Corporation to maintain financial holding company status, both the Corporation and Chemical Bank must be categorized as "well-capitalized" and "well-managed" under applicable regulatory guidelines. If the Corporation or Chemical Bank ceases to meet these requirements, the FRB may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements and place limitations on the Corporation's ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, if the deficiencies persist, the FRB may require the Corporation to divest of Chemical Bank. The Corporation and Chemical Bank were both categorized as "well-capitalized" and "well-managed" as of December 31, 2015.The BHC Act requires prior approval of the FRB for any direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its parent holding company by the Corporation. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the Corporation's performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), the Corporation's adherence to banking regulations and fair lending laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. Interstate Banking and BranchingBank holding companies may acquire banks located in any state in the United States without regard to geographic restrictions or reciprocity requirements imposed by state law. Banks may establish interstate branch networks through acquisitions of other banks. The establishment of de novo interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is allowed only if specifically authorized by state law. Michigan permits both U.S. and non-U.S. banks to establish branch offices in Michigan. The Michigan Banking Code permits, in appropriate circumstances and with the approval of the DIFS, (1) acquisition of Michigan banks by FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states, (2) sale by a Michigan bank of branches to an FDIC-insured bank, savings bank or savings and loan association located in a state in which a Michigan bank could purchase branches of the purchasing entity, (3) consolidation of Michigan banks and FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states having laws permitting such consolidation, (4) establishment of branches in Michigan by FDIC-insured banks located in other states, the District of Columbia or U.S. territories or protectorates having laws permitting a Michigan bank to establish a branch in such jurisdiction, and (5) establishment by foreign banks of branches located in Michigan. A Michigan bank holding company may acquire a non-Michigan bank and a non-Michigan bank holding company may acquire a Michigan bank. 7DividendsThe Corporation's primary source of funds available to pay dividends to shareholders is from dividends paid to it by Chemical Bank. Federal and state banking laws and regulations limit both the extent to which Chemical Bank can lend or otherwise supply funds to the Corporation and also place certain restrictions on the amount of dividends Chemical Bank may pay to the Corporation. The Corporation and Chemical Bank are subject to regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums, which could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances where the payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Chemical Bank is required to obtain prior approval from the FRB for the declaration and payment of dividends to the Corporation if the total of all dividends declared in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) Chemical Bank's net income (as defined by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined by regulation) for the preceding two years. In addition, federal regulatory authorities have stated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Further, the FRB has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. Chemical Bank declared and paid dividends to the Corporation of $56.9 million and $64.5 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Corporation intends to utilize a portion of the proceeds from the dividend from Chemical Bank in 2015 to pay off subordinated debentures, which were acquired as part of the Lake Michigan transaction, during the first quarter of 2016. The Corporation utilized proceeds from the increased dividend from Chemical Bank in 2014 to fund a portion of the cash component of the merger consideration in the Lake Michigan transaction. Dividends received from Chemical Bank in the past are not necessarily indicative of amounts that may be paid or available to be paid in the future.Source of StrengthUnder FRB policy, the Corporation is expected to act as a source of financial strength to Chemical Bank and to commit resources to support Chemical Bank. In addition, if DIFS deems Chemical Bank's capital to be impaired, DIFS may require Chemical Bank to restore its capital by a special assessment on the Corporation as Chemical Bank's only shareholder. If the Corporation failed to pay any assessment, the Corporation's directors would be required, under Michigan law, to sell the shares of Chemical Bank's stock owned by the Corporation to the highest bidder at either a public or private auction and use the proceeds of the sale to restore Chemical Bank's capital. Capital RequirementsThe Corporation and Chemical Bank are subject to regulatory "risk-based" capital guidelines. Failure to meet these capital guidelines could subject the Corporation or Chemical Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting brokered deposits, and other restrictions on its business. In addition, Chemical Bank would generally not receive regulatory approval of any application that requires the consideration of capital adequacy, such as a branch or merger application, unless it could demonstrate a reasonable plan to meet the capital requirement within a reasonable period of time. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA) requires, among other things, federal banking agencies to take "prompt corrective action" in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA sets forth the following five capital categories: "well-capitalized," "adequately-capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly-undercapitalized" and "critically-undercapitalized." A depository institution's capital category will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures as established by regulation, which include Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratio measures and a leverage capital ratio measure. Federal banking regulators are required to take specified mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must generally appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. An institution in any of the undercapitalized categories is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from paying any dividends, increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches, accepting or renewing any brokered deposits or engaging in any new line of business, except under an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. 8In July 2013, the FRB and the FDIC approved final rules implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's (BCBS) capital guidelines for U.S. banks (commonly known as Basel III). Under Basel III, which began for the Corporation and Chemical Bank on January 1, 2015 and are subject to a phase-in period through January 1, 2019, minimum capital requirements were increased for both the quantity and quality of capital held by the Corporation and Chemical Bank. Basel III added a new common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (CET ratio) of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets, which when fully phased-in, effectively results in a minimum CET ratio of 7.0%. Basel III also raised the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0% to 6.0% (which, with the capital conservation buffer, effectively results in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% when fully phased-in) and requires a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%.A summary of the actual and minimum Basel III regulatory capital ratios for the Corporation and Chemical Bank as of December 31, 2015 follows: Leverage Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio Actual Capital Ratios: Chemical Financial Corporation8.6% 10.6% 10.7% 11.8%Chemical Bank8.5% 10.6% 10.6% 11.7%Minimum for capital adequacy purposes4.0% 4.5% 6.0% 8.0%Minimum to be well capitalized under prompt corrective action regulations5.0% 6.5% 8.0% 10.0%Minimum for capital adequacy, including capital conservation buffer(1)6.5% 7.0% 8.5% 10.5%(1) Assumes fully phased in capital conservation buffer of 2.5%. The capital conservation buffer will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% and increasing by the same amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. Failure to maintain the required capital conservation buffer may limit the Corporation's and Chemical Bank's ability to dividends or pay discretionary bonuses, among other things.At December 31, 2015, the capital ratios of the Corporation and Chemical Bank exceeded the regulatory guidelines for institutions to be categorized as "well-capitalized." Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. Additional information on the Corporation and Chemical Bank's capital ratios may be found under Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this report.FDIC InsuranceThe FDIC formed the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (Reform Act). The FDIC implemented the Reform Act to create a stronger and more stable insurance system. The FDIC maintains the insurance reserves of the DIF by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium. The DIF insures deposit accounts of Chemical Bank up to a maximum amount per separately insured depositor. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the maximum amount of federal deposit insurance coverage permanently increased from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor, per institution. FDIC insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance premiums based on the risk an institution poses to the DIF. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, in February 2011, the FDIC finalized rules, effective for assessments occurring after April 1, 2011, which redefine an institution's assessment base as average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. These rules also established the general assessment rate for Risk Category 1 institutions, such as Chemical Bank, at 5 to 9 basis points (annualized). Assessments for depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion or more are subject to a different methodology that reflects the institution's overall risk relative to other large institutions. The FDIC also may impose special assessments at any time it estimates that Deposit Insurance Fund reserves will fall to a level that would adversely affect public confidence. The Corporation's FDIC DIF insurance premiums were $5.5 million in 2015, compared to $4.3 million in 2014 and $4.4 million in 2013.Safety and Soundness StandardsAs required by FDICIA, the federal banking agencies' prompt corrective action powers impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. These actions can include: requiring an insured depository institution to adopt a capital restoration plan guaranteed by the institution's parent company; placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities, including restrictions on transactions with affiliates; restricting the interest rates the institution may pay on deposits; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; prohibiting the holding company from making capital distributions without prior regulatory approval; and, ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. 9The federal banking agencies also have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation and benefits. The federal regulatory agencies may take action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. Depositor PreferenceThe Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides that, in the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC on behalf of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)Banks are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. Under the CRA, institutions are assigned a rating of "outstanding," "satisfactory," "needs to improve," or "substantial non-compliance." The regulatory agency's assessment of the bank's record is made available to the public. Further, a bank's federal regulatory agency is required to assess the CRA compliance record of any bank that has applied to: (1) obtain deposit insurance coverage for a newly chartered institution, (2) establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, (3) relocate an office, or (4) merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of, a federally regulated financial institution. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or another bank holding company, the FRB will assess the CRA compliance record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such compliance records may be the basis for denying the application. Upon receiving notice that a subsidiary bank is rated less than "satisfactory," a financial holding company will be prohibited from additional activities that are permitted to a financial holding company and from acquiring any company engaged in such activities. Chemical Bank's CRA rating was "outstanding" as of December 31, 2015.Financial PrivacyFederal banking regulations limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot ActA major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (USA Patriot Act) substantially broadened the scope of United States anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The United States Treasury Department has issued, and in some cases proposed, a number of regulations that apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Office of Foreign Assets Control RegulationThe United States Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. OFAC sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions on "U.S. persons" engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 10The Dodd-Frank ActThe Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, including establishing the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and requiring the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. The CFPB has issued significant new regulations, which became effective in January 2014, that impact consumer mortgage lending and servicing. In addition, the CFPB has issued regulations, which became effective October 1, 2015, that change the disclosure requirements and forms used under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Compliance with these new laws and regulations and other regulations under consideration by the CFPB have and will likely result in additional costs and could change the products and/or services that are currently being offered, which could be significant and could adversely impact the Corporation's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Incentive CompensationThe regulatory agencies have issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization's incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization's ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization's board of directors. The FRB reviews, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Corporation, that are not "large, complex banking organizations." The findings will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization's supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization's ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization's safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Mergers, Acquisitions, Consolidations and Divestitures The Corporation's current strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings, while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Corporation evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations and transactions may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur, including future acquisitions that may extend beyond contiguous markets. These generally involve payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, dilution of book value per share will likely occur with any future transaction.For more information, see the information under the heading "Mergers, Acquisitions and Branch Closings" included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is here incorporated by reference.Availability of Information The Corporation files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. The public may read and copy any materials the Corporation files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The Corporation's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the financial statements and the financial statement schedules, but not including exhibits to those reports, may be obtained without charge upon written request to Ms. Lori A. Gwizdala, Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, at P.O. Box 569, Midland, Michigan 48640-0569 and are accessible at no cost on the Corporation's website at www.chemicalbankmi.com in the "Investor Information" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of exhibits may be requested at the cost of 30 cents per page from the Corporation's corporate offices. In addition, interactive copies of the Corporation's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the 2016 Proxy Statement are available at www.edocumentview.com/chfc.11Item 1A. Risk Factors.The Corporation's business model is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Although the Corporation seeks ways to manage these risks, the Corporation ultimately cannot predict the future or control all of the risks to which it is subject. Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. Some of these significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties of which the Corporation is unaware, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that adversely affect the Corporation and its business. If any of these risks were to occur, the Corporation's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Corporation's common stock per share could decline significantly. Investments in the Corporation's common stock involve risk. The market price of the Corporation's common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including, among other things: •Variations in quarterly or annual results of operations •Changes in dividends paid per share •Deterioration in asset quality, including declining real estate values •Changes in interest rates •Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by, or involving, the Corporation or its competitors •Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions •Regulatory actions, including changes to regulatory capital levels, the components of regulatory capital and how regulatory capital is calculated•New regulations that limit or significantly change the Corporation's ability to continue to offer existing banking products•Volatility of stock market prices and volumes •Issuance of additional shares of common stock or other debt or equity securities of the Corporation •Changes in market valuations of similar companies •Uncertainties, disruptions and fluctuations in the credit and financial markets, either nationally or globally •Changes in securities analysts' estimates of financial performance or recommendations •New litigation or contingencies or changes in existing litigation or contingencies •New technology used, or services offered, by competitors •Breaches in information security systems of the Corporation and/or its customers and competitors•Changes in accounting policies or procedures required by standard setting or other regulatory agencies •New developments in the financial services industry •News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry •Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the financial services industry, the Corporation and/or its competitors •Rumors or erroneous information •Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts The Corporation is subject to lending risk. A significant source of risk for the Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Corporation are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing repayment includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the amounts owed. Collateral values are adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to net income that represents management's estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, the value of real estate, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions and declines in real estate values affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. 12Any significant increase in the allowance for loan losses would likely result in a significant decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned "Allowance for Loan Losses" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 4 - Loans in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Corporation's process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.Potential acquisitions or mergers may disrupt the Corporation's business and dilute shareholder value. The Corporation seeks acquisition or merger partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring or merging other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or mergers, including, among other things: •Delay in completing an acquisition or merger due to litigation or the regulatory approval process•The recording of assets and liabilities of the acquired or merged company at fair value may materially dilute shareholder value at the transaction date and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations •The time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition or merger targets •Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired or merged company •The estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the acquired or merged company may not be accurate•Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired or merged company •The time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion •The diversion of the Corporation's management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses •The introduction of new products and services into the Corporation's business •Potential disruption to the Corporation's business •The incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with an acquisition or merger and possible adverse short-term effects on the Corporation's results of operations •The possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired or merged company •Difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired or merged company •Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired or merged company •Difficulty or unanticipated expense associated with converting the operating systems of the acquired or merged company to those of the Corporation The transactions may be more expensive to complete and the anticipated benefits, including cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected or may not be achieved in their entirety as a result of unexpected factors or events, including economic and financial conditions.The Corporation regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations and transactions may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions and mergers typically involve the payment of a premium over book value, and, therefore, dilution of the Corporation's tangible book value and ownership interest may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations, including net income per common share.Risks related to the Corporation's proposed merger with Talmer Bancorp, Inc. (Talmer)The Corporation and Talmer have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on the Corporation’s and Talmer’s ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of the Corporation and Talmer in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relations or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of either company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, depositors, clients and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. If the combined companies experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. 13The Corporation has incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transaction contemplated by the merger agreement with Talmer. If the merger is not completed, the Corporation would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. These circumstances could have an adverse effect on the Corporation's business, results of operations and stock price.Under the merger agreement, both the Corporation and Talmer have agreed not to, subject to certain exceptions generally related to their respective board of directors exercise of fiduciary duties, as set forth in the merger agreement, solicit or initiate, or knowingly facilitate or knowingly encourage, inquiries or proposals with respect to, engage in any discussions or negotiations concerning, or provide any confidential information relating to, any alternative business combination transactions. In addition, the merger agreement contains certain termination rights for both the Corporation and Talmer. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including certain breaches of the merger agreement, the Corporation or Talmer, as applicable, is required to reimburse the other party for its transaction-related expenses up to $3 million. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including termination of the merger agreement to accept an alternative business combination transaction as permitted by and subject to the terms of the merger agreement, the Corporation or Talmer, as applicable, is required to pay the other party a termination fee of $34 million minus any previously reimbursed transaction-related expenses. Before the merger may be completed, the Corporation and Talmer must obtain approvals from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Other approvals, waivers or consents from regulators may also be required. These regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Although the Corporation and Talmer do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger.Before the merger may be completed, the Corporation and Talmer must obtain the requisite approval of their respective shareholders. There is no assurance that these approvals will be obtained.Litigation filed against Talmer, its board of directors and the Corporation could prevent or delay the completion of the merger or result in the payment of damages following completion of the merger.In connection with the merger, two purported Talmer stockholders have filed putative class action lawsuits against Talmer, its board of directors and the Corporation. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. If this litigation is not resolved, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to Talmer and the Corporation, including any costs associated with indemnification. Additional lawsuits may be filed against Talmer, the Corporation or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the effective time of the merger may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and market price.Additional growth will subject the Corporation to additional regulation, increased supervision and increased costs.The Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional regulatory requirements on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. The Corporation had $9.2 billion in assets as of December 31, 2015. Additional growth that results in the Corporation having assets of $10 billion or more would subject the Corporation to the following:•Supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws;•Regulatory stress testing requirements, whereby the Corporation would be required to conduct an annual stress test (using assumptions for baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios);•A modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates as a result of institutions with $10 billion or more in assets being required to bear a greater portion of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% as required by the Dodd-Frank Act;•Heightened compliance standards under the Volcker Rule;•Enhanced supervision as a larger financial institution; and•Under the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, institutions with $10 billion or more in assets are subject to a cap on the interchange fees that may be charged in certain electronic debit and prepaid card transactions. The maximum permissible interchange fee for electronic debit transactions is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. In addition, an issuer may charge up to 1 cent on each transaction as a fraud prevention adjustment if the issuer meets certain fraud prevention standards.The imposition of these regulatory requirements and increased supervision may require additional commitment of financial resources to regulatory compliance and may increase the Corporation's cost of operations. Further, the results of the stress testing process may lead the Corporation to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components.If the pending merger with Talmer Bancorp, Inc. is completed, then the Corporation will have more than $10 billion in assets and, as a result, will be subject to the additional regulatory requirements, increased supervision and increased costs.14The Corporation may face increased pressure from purchasers of its residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans. The Corporation sells fixed rate long-term residential mortgage loans it originates in the secondary market. Purchasers of residential mortgage loans, such as government sponsored entities, are increasing their efforts to seek to require sellers of residential mortgage loans to either repurchase loans previously sold or reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold when losses are incurred on a loan previously sold due to actual or alleged failure to strictly conform to the purchaser's purchase criteria. As a result, the Corporation may face increased pressure from purchasers of its residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans and it may face increasing expenses to defend against such claims. If the Corporation is required in the future to repurchase loans previously sold, reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold, or if it incurs increasing expenses to defend against such claims, the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. The Corporation holds general obligation municipal bonds in its investment securities portfolio. If one or more issuers of these bonds were to become insolvent and default on its obligations under the bonds, it could have a negative effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation. Municipal bonds held by the Corporation totaled $525 million at December 31, 2015, and were issued by many different municipalities with no significant concentration in any single municipality. There can be no assurance that the financial conditions of these municipalities will not be materially and adversely affected by future economic conditions. If one or more of the issuers of these bonds were to become insolvent and default on their obligations under the bonds, it could have a negative effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation. General economic conditions, and in particular conditions in the State of Michigan, affect the Corporation's business. The Corporation is affected by general economic conditions in the United States, although most directly within Michigan. The Corporation's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Michigan and the specific local markets in which the Corporation operates. The economic conditions in these local markets have a significant impact on the demand for the Corporation's products and services as well as the ability of the Corporation's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Corporation's deposit funding sources. Substantially all of the Corporation's loans are to individuals and businesses in Michigan. Consequently, any prolonged decline in Michigan's economy could have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline or a prolonged period of the lack of improvement in general economic conditions could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. If the Corporation does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Corporation's ability to maintain its financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend largely on its ability to continue to grow its loan portfolio and also, in part, on its ability to maintain and grow its core deposit customer base and expand its financial services to its existing and/or new customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include savings and loan associations, credit unions, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in the economic environment within the State of Michigan, regulation, and changes in technology and product delivery systems. New competitors may emerge to increase the degree of competition for the Corporation's customers and services. Financial services and products are also constantly changing. The Corporation's financial performance will also depend, in part, upon customer demand for its products and services and its ability to develop and offer competitive financial products and services. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing customers to complete financial transactions without the involvement of banks. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries in financial transactions, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and lending opportunities. Changes in interest rates could reduce the Corporation's net income and cash flow. The Corporation's net income and cash flow depends, to a great extent, on the difference between the interest earned on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Market interest rates are beyond the Corporation's control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and competition. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates and interest rate relationships, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, the interest received on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any significant adverse effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation's results of operations, or any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned "Net Interest Income" in Item 7. 15Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and "Market Risk" in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, located elsewhere in this report, for further discussion related to the Corporation's management of interest rate risk.The Corporation may be required to pay additional deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC, which could negatively impact earnings.Depending upon the magnitude of future losses that the FDIC deposit insurance fund suffers, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional premium increases or assessments in order to replenish the fund. The FDIC may need to set a higher base rate schedule based on future financial institution failures and updated failure and loss projections. Potentially higher FDIC assessment rates than those currently projected or special assessments could have an adverse impact on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is subject to liquidity risk in its operations, which could adversely affect its ability to fund various obligations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable to meet obligations as they come due or capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and earnings retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations and access to other funding. If the Corporation is unable to maintain adequate liquidity, then its business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively effected. Evaluation of investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer's net income, projected net income and financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. Estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and/or value of the underlying asset and also assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon the Corporation's quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Additionally, the Corporation's management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Corporation's intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. Impairments to the carrying value of the Corporation's investment securities may need to be taken in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may be required to recognize an impairment of its goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or to establish a valuation allowance against its deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid to acquire subsidiaries over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. The Corporation tests goodwill at least annually for impairment. Substantially all of the Corporation's goodwill at December 31, 2015 was recorded on the books of Chemical Bank. The fair value of Chemical Bank is impacted by the performance of its business and other factors. Core deposit intangible (CDI) assets represent the estimated value of stable customer deposits, excluding time deposits, acquired in business combinations, that provide a source of funds that are below market interest rates. The Corporation amortizes its CDI assets over the estimated period the corresponding customer deposits are expect to exist. The Corporation tests its CDI assets periodically for impairment. If the Corporation experiences higher than expected deposit run-off, its CDI assets could be impaired. If it is determined that the the Corporation's goodwill or CDI assets have been impaired, the Corporation must recognize a write-down by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such 16write-downs could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2015, the Corporation had $287 million of goodwill, representing 28% of shareholders' equity. The Corporation had $27 million of CDI assets at December 31, 2015.Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the Corporation, including the ability to generate taxable net income. If, based on available information, it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. As of December 31, 2015, the Corporation did not carry a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. Future facts and circumstances may require a valuation allowance. Charges to establish a valuation allowance with respect to the Corporation's deferred tax assets could have a material adverse effect on the its financial condition and results of operations. If the Corporation is required to recognize a valuation allowance with respect to its mortgage servicing rights asset, it could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2015, the Corporation's mortgage servicing rights (MSR) asset had a book value of $11.1 million and a fair value of approximately $15.5 million. The Corporation amortizes its MSR asset in proportion to and over the period of corresponding net servicing income. The Corporation was not required to recognize a valuation allowance at December 31, 2015 with respect to its MSR asset. If the Corporation is required to recognize a valuation allowance with respect to its MSR asset in the future, the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. The Corporation may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation and Chemical Bank are regularly involved in a variety of litigation arising out of the normal course of business. The Corporation's insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against it, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm its reputation or cause the Corporation to incur unexpected expenses, which could be material in amount. Should the ultimate expenses, judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the Corporation's insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may it be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of its business, the Corporation may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, the Corporation might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at the Corporation's sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. The Corporation may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on the Corporation's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation depends upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, the Corporation relies on information provided to it by its customers, including financial statements and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and on reports of independent auditors on financial statements. The Corporation's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that the Corporation extends credit in reliance on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are misleading or other information provided by customers that is false or misleading. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national and regional banks within the various markets where the Corporation operates, as well as internet banks. The Corporation also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. The Corporation competes with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making new loans. Technology has lowered barriers to entry into the market and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic 17transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures, such as credit unions that are not subject to federal income tax. Due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. The Corporation's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: •The ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets •The ability to expand the Corporation's market position •The ability to keep up-to-date with technological advancements in both delivering new products and maintaining existing products, while continuing to invest in cybersecurity and control operating costs•The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands •The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors •Customer satisfaction with the Corporation's level of service •Industry and general economic trends Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation's growth and profitability and have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. If the Corporation loses members of its senior management team upon whom it is dependent, it may be less effective in managing its operations and may have more difficulty achieving its strategic objectives. The Corporation believes its success depends on the continued service of its key executives. Although the Corporation currently intends to retain its existing management, it cannot provide assurances that these individuals will remain with the Corporation. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of the Corporation's key executives or its inability to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time following any such loss, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's ability to execute its business strategy and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact the Corporation or the businesses in which it is engaged.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. The Corporation and Chemical Bank are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of their operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, and not to benefit the Corporation's shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact the Corporation or its ability to increase the value of its business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Future regulatory changes or accounting pronouncements may increase the Corporation's regulatory capital requirements or adversely affect its regulatory capital levels. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Corporation or Chemical Bank could require the Corporation to devote significant time and resources to defending its business and may lead to penalties that materially affect the Corporation and its shareholders. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through organic growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain specified levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation may need to raise additional capital to support its continued growth or in response to regulatory requirements. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside the Corporation's control, and on its financial performance. The Corporation cannot assure that it will be able to raise additional capital in the future on terms acceptable to the Corporation. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through organic growth and acquisitions could be materially limited.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the Corporation or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of the Corporation's counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral that it holds cannot be 18realized or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan. The Corporation can give no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Corporation's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation's internal controls and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. A significant failure or circumvention of the Corporation's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm the Corporation's business. As part of its business, the Corporation collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of itself and other third parties. Despite the security measures the Corporation has in place for its facilities and systems, and the security measures of its third party service providers, the Corporation may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by the Corporation or by its vendors, could severely damage the Corporation's reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt the Corporation's operations and have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business. The Corporation's information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business and deliver its products. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation's information systems or its customers' information or computer systems would not damage the Corporation's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Corporation's business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Corporation's ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Corporation's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Corporation to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may issue debt and equity securities that are senior to the Corporation's common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of the Corporation's common stock. In the future, the Corporation may increase its capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of the Corporation's liquidation, its lenders and holders of its debt securities and preferred stock would receive a distribution of the Corporation's available assets before distributions to the holders of the Corporation's common stock. The Corporation's decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings may depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control. The Corporation cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings and debt financings. Future offerings could reduce the value of shares of the Corporation's common stock and dilute a shareholder's interest in the Corporation. The Corporation relies on dividends from Chemical Bank for most of its revenue. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Chemical Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from Chemical Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay cash dividends on the Corporation's common stock. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Chemical Bank may pay to the Corporation. In the event Chemical Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Corporation, the Corporation may not be able to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The earnings of Chemical Bank have been the principal source of funds to pay cash dividends to shareholders. Over the long-term, cash dividends to shareholders are dependent upon earnings, as well as capital requirements, regulatory restraints and other factors affecting Chemical Bank. See the section captioned "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1. Business and Note 20 - Regulatory Capital and Reserve Requirements in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. 19Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None. 