Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the primary factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of the regulated and unregulated businesses of Chesapeake. Refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect the Company’s operations and/or financial performance. The financial, operational, regulatory and legal, and environmental factors that affect the operations and/or financial performance of the Company include: Financial Risks Inability to access capital markets may impair our future growth. We rely on access to both short-term and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. Currently, $65 million of the total $90 million of short-term lines of credit utilized to satisfy our short-term financing requirements are discretionary, uncommitted lines of credit. We utilize discretionary lines of credit to reduce the cost associated with these short-term financing requirements. We are committed to maintaining a sound capital structure and strong credit ratings to provide the financial flexibility needed to access the capital markets when required. However, if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth may be limited. A downgrade in our credit rating could adversely affect our access to capital markets. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost effective capital depends on our credit ratings, which are greatly affected by our subsidiaries’ financial performance and the liquidity of financial markets. A downgrade in our current credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital markets, as well as our cost of capital. Debt covenants may impact financial condition if triggered. Our long-term debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest-coverage ratios. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or the inability to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration would cause a material adverse change in Chesapeake’s financial condition. A change in economic conditions and interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. A downturn in the economies of the regions in which we operate, which we cannot accurately predict, might adversely affect our ability to increase our customer bases and cash flows at the same rates by which they have grown in the recent past. Further, an increase in interest rates, without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates we charge our utility customers, could adversely affect future earnings. An increase in short-term interest rates would negatively affect our results of operations, which depend on short-term borrowing to finance accounts receivable and storage gas inventories, and to temporarily finance capital expenditures. Inflation may impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Inflation affects the cost of supply, labor, products and services required for operations, maintenance and capital improvements. While the impact of inflation has remained low in recent years, natural gas and propane prices are subject to rapid fluctuations. To help cope with the effects of inflation on our capital investments and returns, we seek rate relief from regulatory commissions for regulated operations and closely monitor the returns of our unregulated business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to offset the effects of inflation. To compensate for fluctuations in propane gas prices, we adjust our propane selling prices to the extent allowed by the market. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to compensate fully for such fluctuations in the cost of propane gas to us. Operational Risks Fluctuations in weather may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our utility and propane distribution operations are sensitive to fluctuations in weather, and weather conditions directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane sold and delivered by our utility and propane distribution operations. A significant portion of our utility and propane distribution operation revenues is derived from the sale and delivery of natural gas and propane to residential and commercial heating customers during the five-month peak heating season (November through March). If the weather is warmer than normal, we sell and deliver less natural gas and propane to customers, and earn less revenue. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas and propane, increased supply costs and higher prices for customers. The amount and availability of natural gas and propane supplies are difficult to predict; a substantial reduction in available supplies could reduce our earnings in those segments. Natural gas and propane production can be affected by factors outside of our control, such as weather and refinery closings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient natural gas and propane supplies to meet demand, results in those segments may be adversely affected. We rely on having access to interstate natural gas pipelines’ transportation and storage capacity; a substantial disruption or lack of growth in these services may impair our ability to meet customers’ existing and future requirements. In order to meet existing and future customer demands for natural gas, we must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline and storage capacity to serve such requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution systems while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage capacity market, our own on-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our markets. Chesapeake, along with other local natural gas distribution companies and other participants in the industry, have raised concerns regarding the future availability of additional upstream interstate pipeline and storage capacity. This is a business issue which we must continue to manage as our customer base grows. - Page 5 - - Natural gas and propane commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our natural gas and propane distribution operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas. Over the last four years, natural gas costs have increased significantly, due to increased demand, and have become more volatile, due to events such as the hurricane activity in 2005, which reduced the natural gas available from the Gulf Coast region and caused a spike in natural gas prices. Higher natural gas prices can result in significant increases in the cost of gas billed to customers. Under our regulated gas cost recovery mechanisms, an increase in the cost of gas due to an increase in the price of the natural gas commodity generally has no immediate effect on our revenues and net income. Our net income, however, may be reduced by higher expenses that we may incur for uncollectable customer accounts and by lower volumes of natural gas deliveries as a result of customers reducing their consumption. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas can affect our operating cash flows and the competitiveness of natural gas as an energy source. Propane. Propane costs are subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including economic and political factors affecting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. Such cost changes can occur rapidly and can affect profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on propane cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when propane costs increase rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year to year as product costs fluctuate in response to propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, declines in retail sales volumes, because of reduced consumption and increased amounts of uncollectible accounts may adversely affect net income. Operating events affecting public safety and the reliability of Chesapeake’s natural gas distribution system could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Chesapeake’s business is exposed to operational events, such as major leaks, mechanical problems and accidents, that could affect the public safety and reliability of its natural gas distribution systems, significantly increase costs and cause loss of customer confidence. The occurrence of any such operational events could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If Chesapeake is unable to recover from customers, through the regulatory process, all or some of these costs and its authorized rate of return on these costs, this also could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we operate in a competitive environment, we may lose customers to competitors. In our natural gas marketing business, we compete with third-party suppliers to sell gas to commercial and industrial customers. In our gas transportation and distribution operations, our competitors include interstate pipelines, when distribution customers are located close enough to the transmission company’s pipeline to make direct connections economically feasible. Our propane distribution operations compete with several other propane distributors, primarily on the basis of service and price, emphasizing reliability of service and responsiveness. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources. The retail propane industry is mature, and we foresee modest growth in total demand. Given this limited growth, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow the propane distribution business is contingent upon execution of our community gas systems strategy to capture additional market share and to employ service pricing programs that retain and grow our customer base. Any failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results. The propane wholesale marketing operation competes against various marketers, many of which have significantly greater resources and are able to obtain price or volumetric advantages. The advanced information services business faces significant competition from a number of larger competitors having substantially greater resources available to them to compete on the basis of technological expertise, reputation and price. Changes in technology may adversely affect our advanced information services segment’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our advanced information services segment participates in a market that is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. The success of our advanced information services segment depends upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services, on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. There is no assurance that we will be able to keep up with technological advancements necessary to keep our products and services competitive. Our energy marketing subsidiaries have credit risk and credit requirements that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Xeron, our propane wholesale and marketing subsidiary, and PESCO, our natural gas marketing subsidiary, extend credit to counter-parties. While we believe Xeron and PESCO utilize prudent credit policies, each of these subsidiaries is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counter-party to such a transaction fails to perform, and any underlying collateral is inadequate, we could experience financial losses. Xeron and PESCO are also dependent upon the availability of credit to buy propane and natural gas for resale or to trade. If financial market conditions decline generally, or the financial condition of these subsidiaries or of the Company, declines, then the cost of credit available to these subsidiaries could increase. If credit is not available, or if credit is more costly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our use of derivative instruments may adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuating commodity prices may affect our earnings and financing costs. Our propane distribution and wholesale marketing segments use derivative instruments, including forwards, swaps and puts, to hedge price risk. In addition, we have utilized in the past, and may decide, after further evaluation, to continue to utilize derivative instruments to hedge price risk for our Delaware and Maryland divisions, as well as PESCO. While we have a risk management policy and operating procedures in place to control our exposure to risk, if we purchase derivative instruments that are not properly matched to our exposure, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial conditions may be adversely affected. Changes in customer growth may affect earnings and cash flows. Chesapeake’s ability to increase its gross margins in its regulated and propane businesses is dependent upon the new construction housing market, adding new industrial customers and conversion of customers to natural gas or propane from other fuel sources. Slowdowns in these markets could adversely affect the Company’s gross margin in its regulated or propane businesses, its earnings and cash flows. Chesapeake’s businesses are capital intensive, and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Chesapeake’s businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage such capital projects effectively or if we do not receive full recovery of such capital costs in future regulatory proceedings. - Page 6 - - Regulatory and Legal Risks Regulation of the Company, including changes in the regulatory environment, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Delaware, Maryland and Florida PSCs regulate our natural gas distribution operations; Eastern Shore, our natural gas transmission subsidiary, is regulated by the FERC. These commissions set the rates that we can charge customers for services subject to their regulatory jurisdiction. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases and rate supplements to maintain current rates of return depends on regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that our divisions and Eastern Shore will be able to obtain such approvals or maintain currently authorized rates of return. We are dependent upon construction of new facilities to support future growth in earnings in our natural gas distribution and interstate pipeline operations. Construction of new facilities required to support future growth is subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (a) our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; (b) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (c) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; (d) lack of anticipated future growth in available natural gas supply; and (e) insufficient customer throughput commitments. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and delivering natural gas and propane to end users. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Environmental Risks Costs of compliance with environmental laws may be significant. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental effects at current and former operating sites, including former manufactured gas plant sites that we have acquired from third parties. Compliance with these legal obligations requires us to commit capital. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if such failure is caused by factors beyond our control, we may be assessed civil or criminal penalties and fines. To date, we have been able to recover, through regulatory rate mechanisms, the costs associated with the remediation of former manufactured gas plant sites. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover future remediation costs in the same manner or at all. A change in our approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former manufactured gas plant sites could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted and be applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in additional operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 