Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the primary financial, operational, regulatory and legal, and environmental risk factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of our regulated and unregulated businesses. Refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect our operations and/or financial performance. Financial Risks The anticipated benefits of the merger with FPU may not be realized. We entered into the merger with FPU with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although we have achieved significant synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies since the merger, there can be no assurance that these benefits will be sustained in the future, or additional benefits will be achieved in the future. Failure to sustain these benefits or achieve additional benefits in the future will adversely affect our expected future performance. We are currently in discussions with the Office of Public Counsel of Florida and the Florida PSC staff regarding the benefits and cost savings of the merger, current and expected earnings level as well as the recovery of approximately $34.9 million in purchase premium and $2.2 million in merger-related costs. If we fail to obtain the necessary approval to earn a return on the purchase premium and merger-related costs and treat the amortization as allowable operating costs, we may be required to expense the amortization of these assets without recovery which will adversely affect our financial performance for the related periods. We may also be required to pass on to ratepayers, some, or all of the increased earnings generated from cost savings, resulting from the merger. Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes the continued pursuit of growth, both organically and through acquisitions. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may incur additional indebtedness to finance our growth. Specifically, we rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from our operations. Currently, $40 million of the total $100 million of short-term lines of credit utilized to satisfy our short-term financing requirements are discretionary, uncommitted lines of credit. We utilize discretionary lines of credit to reduce the cost associated with these short-term financing requirements. We are committed to maintaining a sound capital structure and strong credit ratings to provide the financial flexibility needed to access the capital markets when required. However, if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth may be limited. A downgrade in our credit rating could adversely affect our access to capital markets and our cost of capital. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective capital depends on our credit ratings, which are greatly affected by our financial performance and the liquidity of financial markets. A downgrade in our current credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital markets, as well as our cost of capital. Debt covenant obligations, if triggered, may affect our financial condition. Our long-term debt obligations and committed short-term lines of credit contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest-coverage ratios. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or the inability to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration would cause a material adverse change in our financial condition. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 13 Table of Contents The continuation of recent economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. A continued downturn in the economies of the regions in which we operate, together with increased unemployment, mortgage and other credit defaults and significant decreases in the values of homes and investment assets, have adversely affected the financial resources of many domestic households. These economic conditions have slowed the growth in our customer base and cash flows. It is unclear whether governmental responses to these conditions will be successful in lessening the severity or duration of the current recession. As a result, our customers may use less natural gas, electricity or propane and it may become more difficult for them to pay their bills. This may slow collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivable, which in turn, could increase our financing requirements and result in higher bad debt expense. An increase in interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. An increase in interest rates, without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates we charge our utility customers, could adversely affect future earnings. An increase in short-term interest rates would negatively affect our results of operations, which depend on short-term lines of credit to finance accounts receivable and storage gas inventories, as well as to temporarily finance capital expenditures. Inflation may impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Inflation affects the cost of supply, labor, products and services required for operations, maintenance and capital improvements. To help cope with the effects of inflation on our capital investments and returns, we seek rate increases from regulatory commissions for regulated operations and closely monitor the returns of our unregulated operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate and timely rate increases to offset the effects of inflation. To compensate for fluctuations in propane gas prices, we adjust our propane selling prices to the extent allowed by the market. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to compensate fully for such fluctuations in the cost of propane gas to us. Our operations are exposed to market risks, beyond our control, which could adversely affect our financial results and capital requirements. Our natural gas marketing and propane wholesale marketing operations are subject to market risks beyond their control, including market liquidity and commodity price volatility. Although we maintain a risk management policy, we may not be able to offset completely the price risk associated with volatile commodity prices, which could lead to volatility in earnings. Physical trading also has price risk on any net open positions at the end of each trading day, as well as volatility resulting from: (i) intra-day fluctuations of natural gas and/or propane prices, and (ii) daily price movements between the time natural gas and/or propane is purchased or sold for future delivery and the time the related purchase or sale is hedged. The determination of our net open position at the end of any trading day requires Xeron to make assumptions as to future circumstances, including the use of natural gas and/or propane by its customers in relation to its anticipated market positions. Because the price risk associated with any net open position at the end of such day may increase if the assumptions are not realized, we review these assumptions daily. Net open positions may increase volatility in our financial condition or results of operations if market prices move in a significantly favorable or unfavorable manner, because the timing of the recognition of profits or losses on the economic hedges for financial accounting purposes usually does not match up with the timing of the economic profits or losses on the item being hedged. This volatility may occur, with a resulting increase or decrease in earnings or losses, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. Our energy marketing subsidiaries have credit risk and credit requirements that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our energy marketing subsidiaries extend credit to counterparties and continually monitor and manage collections aggressively. Each of these subsidiaries is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform, and any underlying collateral is inadequate, we could experience financial losses. These subsidiaries are also dependent upon the availability of credit to buy propane and natural gas for resale or to trade. If financial market conditions decline generally, or the financial condition of these subsidiaries or of our Company declines, then the cost of credit available to these subsidiaries could increase. If credit is not available, or if credit is more costly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 14 Table of Contents Current market conditions have had an adverse impact on the return on plan assets for our pension plans, which may require significant additional funding and adversely affect our cash flows. We have pension plans that have been closed to new employees. The costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans. As a result of the extreme volatility and disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets in recent years, the asset values of Chesapeake’s and FPU’s pension plans have fluctuated significantly since 2008. The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Future losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Downward pressure on the asset values of our pension plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than originally planned, which would have an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations, decrease borrowing capacity and increase interest expense. Operational Risks We may be unable to successfully integrate operations after the merger. The merger between Chesapeake and FPU involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. We began the process of integrating operations, both geographically and organizationally, immediately after the merger and this process is still on-going today. While significant progress has been made in integration, we continue to combine and enhance various systems, facilities and personnel deployment. Throughout the integration process, we are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss of key employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with unions and work stoppages that could affect our business and financial condition. Continued integration efforts may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with continued integration activities could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. Fluctuations in weather may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our natural gas and propane distribution operations are sensitive to fluctuations in weather conditions, which directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane sold and delivered. A significant portion of our natural gas and propane distribution revenues is derived from the sales and deliveries of natural gas and propane to residential and commercial heating customers during the five-month peak heating season (November through March). If the weather is warmer than normal, we sell and deliver less natural gas and propane to customers, and earn less revenue. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas, propane and electricity, increased supply costs and higher prices for customers. Our electric operations, while generally less seasonal than natural gas and propane sales as electricity is used for both heating and cooling in our service areas, are also affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. The amount and availability of natural gas, electricity and propane supplies are difficult to predict; a substantial reduction in available supplies could reduce our earnings in those segments. Natural gas, electricity and propane production can be affected by factors beyond our control, such as weather, closings of generation facilities and refineries. If we are unable to obtain sufficient natural gas, electricity and propane supplies to meet demand, results in those businesses may be adversely affected. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 15 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of natural gas, electric and propane suppliers, the loss of which could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our natural gas distribution and marketing operations, electric distribution operation and propane operations have entered into various agreements with suppliers to purchase natural gas, electricity and propane to serve their customers. The loss of any significant suppliers or our inability to renew these contracts at favorable terms upon their expiration could significantly affect our ability to serve our customers and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on having access to interstate natural gas pipelines’ transmission and storage capacity and electric transmission capacity; a substantial disruption or lack of growth in these services may impair our ability to meet customers’ existing and future requirements. In order to meet existing and future customer demands for natural gas and electricity, we must acquire sufficient natural gas supplies, interstate pipeline transmission and storage capacity, and electric transmission capacity to serve such requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution systems while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage and electric transmission markets, our own on-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our markets. Our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if the future availability of these capacities were insufficient to meet future customer demands for natural gas and electricity. Currently, FPU’s natural gas is transported primarily through one pipeline system. Any interruption to that system could adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of FPU’s customers and our earnings. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our natural gas, electric and propane distribution operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas/Electric. Higher natural gas prices can significantly increase the cost of gas billed to our natural gas customers. Increases in the cost of coal and other fuels can significantly increase the cost of electricity billed to our electric customers. Such cost increases generally have no immediate effect on our revenues and net income because of our regulated fuel cost recovery mechanisms. Our net income, however, may be reduced by higher expenses that we may incur for uncollectible customer accounts and by lower volumes of natural gas and electricity deliveries when customers reduce their consumption. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas, coal and other fuels can affect our operating cash flows and the competitiveness of natural gas and electricity as energy sources and consequently have an adverse effect on our operating cash flows. Propane. Propane costs are subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including weather and economic and political factors affecting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. Such cost changes can occur rapidly and can affect profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on propane cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when propane costs increase rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year to year as product costs fluctuate in response to propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, declines in retail sales volumes due to reduced consumption and increased amounts of uncollectible accounts may adversely affect net income. Our propane inventory is subject to inventory risk, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our propane distribution operations own bulk propane storage facilities, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 3.0 million gallons. We purchase and store propane based on several factors, including inventory levels and the price outlook. We may purchase large volumes of propane at current market prices during periods of low demand and low prices, which generally occur during the summer months. Propane is a commodity, and, as such, its unit price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the unit price of the propane that we purchase can change rapidly over a short period of time. The market price for propane could fall below the price at which we made the purchases, which would adversely affect our profits or cause sales from that inventory to be unprofitable. In addition, falling propane prices may result in inventory write-downs as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) if the market price of propane falls below our weighted average cost of inventory, which could adversely affect net income. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 16 Table of Contents Operating events affecting public safety and the reliability our natural gas and electric distribution systems could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business is exposed to operational events, such as major leaks, mechanical problems and accidents, that could affect the public safety and reliability of our natural gas distribution and transmission systems, significantly increase costs and cause loss of customer confidence. The occurrence of any such operational events could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to recover from customers, through the regulatory process, all or some of these costs and our authorized rate of return on these costs, this also could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our electric operation is subject to various operational risks, including accidents, outages, equipment breakdowns or failures, or operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. Problems such as the breakdown or failure of electric equipment or processes and interruptions in service which would result in performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, particularly if extended for prolonged periods of time, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we operate in a competitive environment, we may lose customers to competitors which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas. Our natural gas marketing operations compete with third-party suppliers to sell natural gas to commercial and industrial customers. Our natural gas transmission and distribution operations compete with interstate pipelines when our transmission and/or distribution customers are located close enough to a competing pipeline to make direct connections economically feasible. Failure to retain and grow our customer base in the natural gas operations would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Electric. While there is active wholesale power sales competition in Florida, our retail electric business through FPU has remained substantially free from direct competition. Changes in the competitive environment caused by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Propane. Our propane distribution operations compete with other propane distributors, primarily on the basis of service and price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources. Our ability to grow the propane distribution business is contingent upon capturing additional market share, expanding new service territories, and successfully utilizing pricing programs that retain and grow our customer base. Failure to retain and grow our customer base in our propane gas operations would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our propane wholesale marketing operations compete with various marketers, many of which have significantly greater resources and are able to obtain price or volumetric advantages. Changes in technology may adversely affect our advanced information services subsidiary’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. BravePoint participates in a market that is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. The success of our advanced information services subsidiary depends upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services, on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. There is no assurance that we will be able to keep up with technological advancements to the degree necessary to keep our products and services competitive. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 17 Table of Contents Our use of derivative instruments may adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuating commodity prices may affect our earnings and financing costs because our propane distribution and wholesale marketing operations use derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, swaps and puts, to hedge price risk. In addition, we have utilized in the past, and may decide, after further evaluation, to continue to utilize derivative instruments to hedge price risk. While we have a risk management policy and operating procedures in place to control our exposure to risk, if we purchase derivative instruments that are not properly matched to our exposure, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Changes in customer growth may affect earnings and cash flows. Our ability to increase gross margins in our regulated energy and unregulated propane distribution businesses is dependent upon growth in the residential construction market, adding new commercial and industrial customers and conversion of customers to natural gas, electricity or propane from other energy sources. Slowdowns in these markets may adversely affect our gross margin in our regulated energy or propane distribution businesses, earnings and cash flows. Our businesses are capital intensive, and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Our businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we do not pursue or are unable to manage such capital projects effectively or if full recovery of such capital costs is not permitted in future regulatory proceedings. The risk of terrorism and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane, refined fuels, electricity and natural gas. Terrorist attacks, political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely affect the price and availability of propane, refined fuels and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil, electricity or natural gas supplies and markets, and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport/transmit propane, electricity and natural gas if our means of supply transportation, such as rail, power grid or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity following such events could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity and hostilities in the Middle East could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for propane, refined fuels, electricity and natural gas. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Operational interruptions to our natural gas transmission and natural gas and electric distribution activities, caused by accidents, malfunctions, severe weather (such as a major hurricane), a pandemic or acts of terrorism, could adversely impact earnings. Inherent in natural gas transmission and natural gas and electric distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures, fires, explosions and mechanical problems. If they are severe enough or if they lead to operational interruptions, they could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in the loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage and impairment of our operations. The location of pipeline, storage, transmission and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Our natural gas and electric distribution, natural gas transmission and propane storage facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to meet customer requirements. Terrorist attacks may also disrupt capital markets and our ability to raise capital. A terrorist attack on our facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers, could result in a significant decrease in revenues or a significant increase in repair costs. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 18 Table of Contents Our regulated energy business will be at risk if franchise agreements are not renewed. Our regulated natural gas and electric distribution operations hold franchises in each of the incorporated municipalities that require franchise agreements in order to provide natural gas and electricity. Our natural gas and electric distribution operations are currently in negotiations for franchises with certain municipalities for new service areas and renewal of some existing franchises. Ongoing financial results would be adversely impacted from the loss of service to certain operating areas within our electric or natural gas territories in the event that franchise agreements were not renewed. A strike, work stoppage or a labor dispute could adversely affect our results of operation. We are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions at some of our Florida operations. A strike, work stoppage or a labor dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could cause interruption to our operations. If a strike, work stoppage or other labor dispute were to occur, our results could be adversely affected. Regulatory and Legal Risks Regulation of our Company, including changes in the regulatory environment, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Delaware, Maryland and Florida PSCs regulate our utility operations in those states. ESNG is regulated by the FERC. These commissions set the rates that we can charge customers for services subject to their regulatory jurisdiction. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases and rate supplements to maintain current rates of return depends on regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that our regulated operations will be able to obtain such approvals or maintain currently authorized rates of return. When our earnings from the regulated utilities exceed the authorized rate of return, these commissions may require us to refund the excess earnings or reduce our rates charged to customers in the future. We are required to detail known benefits, synergies, cost savings and cost increases resulting from the FPU merger and present the information in the “come-back” filing to the Florida PSC by April 29, 2011 (within 18 months of the FPU merger). We also intend to seek for the recovery of the purchase premium and merger-related costs from the FPU merger. We are currently in discussions with the Office of Public Counsel of Florida regarding the “come-back” filing and the recovery of the purchase premium and merger-related costs. The outcome of such discussions or the ultimate outcome of the “come-back” filing, are unknown at this time. We are dependent upon construction of new facilities to support future growth in earnings in our natural gas and electric distribution and natural gas transmission operations. Construction of new facilities required to support future growth is subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (a) our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; (b) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (c) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; (d) lack of anticipated future growth in available natural gas and electricity supply; and (e) insufficient customer throughput commitments. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting/ transmitting and delivering natural gas, electricity and propane to end users. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in the amount of $51 million covering general liabilities of our Company, which we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 19 Table of Contents We have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and regulatory assets prior to obtaining a rate order. An adverse outcome could result in an impairment of those assets. The merger with FPU and the purchase of the operating assets from IGC resulted in approximately $34.9 million in purchase premium which is currently recorded as goodwill. We intend to seek regulatory approval to include the purchase premium and approximately $2.2 million in merger-related costs in future rates in Florida. Other utilities in Florida, including Chesapeake and FPU in the past, have been successful in recovering similar costs by demonstrating benefits to customers attributable to the business combination. The ultimate outcome of such regulatory proceedings will depend on various factors, including but not limited to, our ability to demonstrate the benefits of the merger, the regulatory environment in Florida and the results of our Florida regulated operations. If we are not successful in obtaining regulatory approval to recover these costs in future rates, we will be required to perform impairment tests of goodwill and regulatory assets, the results of which could be an impairment of all or part of the goodwill and/or regulatory assets in the future. We may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change legislation. A number of proposals to limit greenhouse gas emissions, measured in carbon dioxide equivalent units, are pending, or at least being considered, at regional, federal and international levels. These proposals would require us to measure and potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions from our energy operations and our customers or purchase allowances for such emissions. While we cannot predict with certainty the extent of these limitations or when they will become effective, these actions could: • increase our costs related to operations, energy efficiency activities and compliance; • affect the demand for natural gas, electricity and propane; and • increase the prices we charge our energy customers. The occurrence of any such legislation could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If our regulated energy operations are unable to recover from customers through the regulatory process all or some of these costs and our authorized rate of return on these costs, this also could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to pipeline safety legislation. A number of proposals to implement increased oversight over pipeline operations and increased investment in facilities to inspect pipeline facilities, upgrade pipeline facilities, or control the impact of a breach of such facilities are pending at the federal level. Additional operating expenses and capital expenditures may be necessary to remain in compliance with the increased federal oversight resulting from such proposals. While we cannot predict with certainty the extent of these expenses and expenditures or when they will become effective, the adoption of such legislation could adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. If our regulated natural gas operations are unable to recover from customers through the regulatory process all or some of these costs and our authorized rate of return on these costs, this also could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 20 Table of Contents Environmental Risks Costs of compliance with environmental laws may be significant. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental effects at current and former operating sites, including former manufactured gas plant (“MGP”) sites that we have acquired from third-parties. Compliance with these legal obligations requires us to commit capital. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if such failure is caused by factors beyond our control, we may be assessed civil or criminal penalties and fines. To date, we have been able to recover, through regulatory rate mechanisms, the costs associated with the remediation of former MGP sites. There is no guarantee, however, that we will be able to recover future remediation costs in the same manner or at all. A change in our approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former MGP sites could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted and be applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in additional operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable. Pending environmental matters, particularly with respect to FPU’s site in West Palm Beach, Florida, may have a materially adverse effect on our Company and our results of operations. We have participated in the investigation, assessment or remediation of environmental matters with respect to certain of our properties and we believe our Company has certain exposures at six former MGP sites. Those sites are located in Salisbury, Maryland, and Winter Haven, Key West, Pensacola, Sanford and West Palm Beach, Florida. We have also been in discussions with the Maryland Department of the Environment (“MDE”) regarding a seventh former MGP site located in Cambridge, Maryland. The Key West, Pensacola, Sanford and West Palm Beach sites are related to FPU, for which we assumed any existing and future contingencies in the merger with FPU. The site with the most potential exposure is the former West Palm Beach MGP. In November 2010, we presented a new proposed strategy with an aggressive remedial action plan to expedite remediation of this site, and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (the “FDEP”) agreed with the proposal to implement a phased approach. In February 2011, FDEP approved the interim Remedial Action Plan (“RAP”) for the east parcel of this site, contingent upon certain conditions, and we are currently implementing the plan. Our current estimate of total remediation costs and expenses for the West Palm Beach site based on the most recently proposed remedial action plan is between $5.1 million and $13.3 million. This estimate does not include any costs associated with relocation of our operations from the site, which is necessary to implement the remedial action, and any potential costs associated with re-development of the properties. Actual costs may also be higher or lower than the range of current estimate based upon the final remedy required by FDEP. As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded $358,000 in environmental liabilities related to Chesapeake’s MGP sites in Maryland and Winter Haven, Florida, representing our estimate of the future costs associated with those sites. We had recorded approximately $1.3 million in assets for future recovery of environmental costs to be received from our customers through our approved rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded approximately $11.6 million in environmental liabilities related to FPU’s MGP sites in Florida, primarily related to the West Palm Beach site. Such amount represents our estimate as of December 31, 2010, of the future costs associated with those sites, although FPU is approved to recover its environmental costs up to $14.0 million from insurance and customers through approved rates. Of the approximately $11.6 million recorded as environmental liabilities related to FPU’s MGP sites in Florida as of December 31, 2010, we have recovered approximately $7.8 million of environmental costs from insurance and customers through rates, and have recorded approximately $6.2 million in assets for future recovery of environmental costs to be received from FPU’s customers through approved rates. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2010 Form 10-K Page 21 Table of Contents The costs and expenses we incur to address environmental issues at our sites may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and earnings to the extent that such costs and expenses exceed the amounts we have accrued as environmental reserves or that we are otherwise permitted to recover from customers through rates. At present, we believe that the amounts accrued as environmental reserves and that we are otherwise permitted to recover from customers through rates are sufficient to fund the pending environmental liabilities previously described. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 