Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the primary financial, operational, regulatory and legal, and environmental risk factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of the regulated and unregulated businesses of Chesapeake. Refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect the Company’s operations and/or financial performance. Financial Risks Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes the continued pursuit of growth, both organically and through acquisitions. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may incur additional indebtedness to finance our growth. The turmoil experienced in the credit markets during 2008 and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created arrangements in the public or private markets on terms we believe to be reasonable. Specifically, we rely on access to both short-term and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. Currently, $45 million of the total $100 million of short-term lines of credit utilized to satisfy our short-term financing requirements are discretionary, uncommitted lines of credit. We utilize discretionary lines of credit to reduce the cost associated with these short-term financing requirements. We are committed to maintaining a sound capital structure and strong credit ratings to provide the financial flexibility needed to access the capital markets when required. However, if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth may be limited. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers. There is no assurance that recent government intervention to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs or will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we would seek to meet our liquidity needs by drawing upon contractually committed lending agreements primarily provided by banks and/or by seeking other funding sources. Under such extreme market conditions, however, there can be no assurance that such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Page 12 Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Table of Contents Difficult conditions in the financial services markets have materially and adversely affected the business and results of operations of many financial institutions, and we do not know when and if these conditions may improve in the near future. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially representing mortgage-backed securities but more recently including credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The unsoundness of financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and may periodically execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. These transactions may expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments would not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. A downgrade in our credit rating could adversely affect our access to capital markets. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective capital depends on our credit ratings, which are greatly affected by our financial performance and the liquidity of financial markets. A downgrade in our current credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital markets, as well as our cost of capital. Debt covenant obligations, if triggered, may affect our financial condition. Our long-term debt obligations and committed short-term lines of credit contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest-coverage ratios. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or the inability to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration would cause a material adverse change in Chesapeake’s financial condition. The continuation of recent economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. The slowdown in the U.S. economy, together with increased unemployment, mortgage and other credit defaults and significant decreases in the values of homes and investment assets, have adversely affected the financial resources of many domestic households. It is unclear whether governmental responses to these conditions will be successful in lessening the severity or duration of the current recession. As a result, our customers may use less gas or propane and/or it may become more difficult for them to pay their gas or propane bills. This may slow collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivable, which in turn, could increase our financing requirements and result in higher bad debt expense. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Page 13 Table of Contents Further changes in economic conditions and interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. A continued downturn in the economies of the regions in which we operate might adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base and cash flows at historical rates. Further, an increase in interest rates, without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates we charge our utility customers, could adversely affect future earnings. An increase in short-term interest rates would negatively affect our results of operations, which depend on short-term lines of credit to finance accounts receivable and storage gas inventories, and to temporarily finance capital expenditures. Inflation may impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Inflation affects the cost of supply, labor, products and services required for operations, maintenance and capital improvements. To help cope with the effects of inflation on our capital investments and returns, we seek rate relief from regulatory commissions for regulated operations and closely monitor the returns of our unregulated business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to offset the effects of inflation. To compensate for fluctuations in propane gas prices, we adjust our propane selling prices to the extent allowed by the market. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to compensate fully for such fluctuations in the cost of propane gas to us. Current market conditions have had a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension plan, which may require additional funding and negatively affect our cash flows. We have a pension plan that has been closed to new employees since January 1, 1999. The costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of this plan are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plan. As a result of the extreme volatility and disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets, our pension plan experienced a decline of $4.3 million in its asset values during the year. The funded status of the plan and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, continued losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of the plan in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Continued downward pressure on the asset values of the plan may require us to fund obligations earlier than it had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on our cash flows from operations, decrease borrowing capacity and increase interest expense. Our operations are exposed to market risks, beyond our control, which could adversely affect our financial results and capital requirements. Our PESCO and Xeron operations are subject to market risks beyond our control, including market liquidity and commodity price volatility. Although we maintain a risk management policy, we may not be able to offset completely the price risk associated with volatile commodity prices, which could lead to volatility in our earnings. Physical trading also has price risk on any net open positions at the end of each trading day, as well as volatility resulting from: (i) intra-day fluctuations of gas and/or propane prices, and (ii) daily price movements between the time natural gas and/or propane is purchased or sold for future delivery and the time the related purchase or sale is hedged. The determination of our net open position at the end of any trading day requires us to make assumptions as to future circumstances, including the use of gas and/or propane by our customers in relation to our anticipated market positions. Because the price risk associated with any net open position at the end of such day may increase if the assumptions are not realized, we review these assumptions daily. Net open positions may increase volatility in our financial condition or results of operations if market prices move in a significantly favorable or unfavorable manner, because the timing of the recognition of profits or losses on the hedges for financial accounting purposes usually does not match up with the timing of the economic profits or losses on the item being hedged. This volatility may occur, with a resulting increase or decrease in earnings or losses, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. Page 14 Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Table of Contents Operational Risks Fluctuations in weather may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our natural gas and propane distribution operations are sensitive to fluctuations in weather conditions, which directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane sold and delivered. A significant portion of our natural gas and propane distribution revenues is derived from the sales and deliveries of natural gas and propane to residential and commercial heating customers during the five-month peak heating season (November through March). If the weather is warmer than normal, we sell and deliver less natural gas and propane to customers, and earn less revenue. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas and propane, increased supply costs and higher prices for customers. The amount and availability of natural gas and propane supplies are difficult to predict; a substantial reduction in available supplies could reduce our earnings in those segments. Natural gas and propane production can be affected by factors beyond our control, such as weather and refinery closings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient natural gas and propane supplies to meet demand, results in those segments may be adversely affected. We rely on having access to interstate natural gas pipelines’ transportation and storage capacity; a substantial disruption or lack of growth in these services may impair our ability to meet customers’ existing and future requirements. In order to meet existing and future customer demands for natural gas, we must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline and storage capacity to serve such requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution systems while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage capacity market, our own on-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our markets. Chesapeake, along with other local natural gas distribution companies and other participants in the industry, has voiced concern regarding the future availability of additional upstream interstate pipeline and storage capacity. This is a business issue which we must continue to manage as our customer base grows. Natural gas and propane commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our natural gas and propane distribution operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas. Higher natural gas prices can significantly increase the cost of gas billed to our customers. Such cost increases generally have no immediate effect on our revenues and net income because of our regulated gas recovery mechanisms. Our net income, however, may be reduced by higher expenses that we may incur for uncollectible customer accounts and by lower volumes of natural gas deliveries when customers reduce their consumption. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas can affect our operating cash flows and the competitiveness of natural gas as an energy source. Propane. Propane costs are subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including economic and political factors affecting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. Such cost changes can occur rapidly and can affect profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on propane cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when propane costs increase rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year-to-year as product costs fluctuate in response to propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, declines in retail sales volumes due to reduced consumption and increased amounts of uncollectible accounts may adversely affect net income. Our propane inventory is subject to inventory risk, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s propane distribution operations own bulk propane storage facilities, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 2.5 million gallons. We purchase and store propane based on several factors, including inventory levels and the price outlook. We may purchase large volumes of propane at current market prices during periods of low demand and low prices, which generally occur during the summer months. Propane is a commodity, and, as such, its unit price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the unit price of the propane that we purchase can change rapidly over a short period of time. The market price for propane could fall below the price at which we made the purchases, which would adversely affect our profits or cause sales from that inventory to be unprofitable. In addition, falling propane prices may result in inventory write-downs as required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) if the market price of propane falls below our weighted average cost of inventory, and therefore, could adversely affect net income. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Page 15 Table of Contents Operating events affecting public safety and the reliability of Chesapeake’s natural gas distribution system could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Chesapeake’s business is exposed to operational events, such as major leaks, mechanical problems and accidents, that could affect the public safety and reliability of its natural gas distribution systems, significantly increase costs and cause loss of customer confidence. The occurrence of any such operational events could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If Chesapeake is unable to recover from customers, through the regulatory process, all or some of these costs and its authorized rate of return on these costs, this also could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we operate in a competitive environment, we may lose customers to competitors. PESCO competes with third-party suppliers to sell gas to commercial and industrial customers. In our gas transportation and distribution operations, our competitors include interstate pipelines, when our transmission and/or distribution customers are located close enough to a competing pipeline to make direct connections economically feasible. Our propane distribution operations compete with several other propane distributors, primarily on the basis of service and price, emphasizing reliability of service and responsiveness. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources. The retail propane industry is mature, and we foresee modest growth in total demand. Given this limited growth, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow the propane distribution business is contingent upon continued execution of our community gas systems strategy to capture additional market share, successful penetration of new service territories, and successful utilization of pricing programs that retain and grow our customer base. Failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results. Xeron competes against various marketers, many of which have significantly greater resources and are able to obtain price or volumetric advantages. BravePoint faces significant competition from a number of larger competitors having substantially greater resources available to them to compete on the basis of technological expertise, reputation and price. Changes in technology may adversely affect our advanced information services segment’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. BravePoint participates in a market that is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. The success of our advanced information services segment depends upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services, on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. There is no assurance that we will be able to keep up with technological advancements necessary to keep our products and services competitive. Our energy marketing subsidiaries have credit risk and credit requirements that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Xeron and PESCO extend credit to counter-parties. While we believe Xeron and PESCO utilize prudent credit policies, each of these subsidiaries is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counter-party to such a transaction fails to perform, and any underlying collateral is inadequate, we could experience financial losses. Page 16 Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Table of Contents Xeron and PESCO are also dependent upon the availability of credit to buy propane and natural gas for resale or to trade. If financial market conditions decline generally, or the financial condition of these subsidiaries or of the Company, declines, then the cost of credit available to these subsidiaries could increase. If credit is not available, or if credit is more costly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our use of derivative instruments may adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuating commodity prices may affect our earnings and financing costs because our propane distribution and wholesale marketing segments use derivative instruments, including forwards, swaps and puts, to hedge price risk. In addition, we have utilized in the past, and may decide, after further evaluation, to continue to utilize derivative instruments to hedge price risk for our Delaware and Maryland natural gas distribution divisions, as well as PESCO. While we have a risk management policy and operating procedures in place to control our exposure to risk, if we purchase derivative instruments that are not properly matched to our exposure, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial conditions may be adversely affected. Changes in customer growth may affect earnings and cash flows. Chesapeake’s ability to increase gross margins in its regulated and propane businesses is dependent upon the residential construction market, adding new commercial and industrial customers and conversion of customers to natural gas or propane from other fuel sources. Slowdowns in these markets could adversely affect the Company’s gross margin in its regulated or propane businesses, its earnings and cash flows. Chesapeake’s businesses are capital intensive, and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Chesapeake’s businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage such capital projects effectively or if we do not receive full recovery of such capital costs in future regulatory proceedings. Chesapeake’s facilities and operations could be targets of acts of terrorism. Chesapeake’s natural gas distribution, natural gas transmission and propane storage facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could result in a disruption of our ability to meet customer requirements. Terrorist attacks may also disrupt capital markets and Chesapeake’s ability to raise capital. A terrorist attack on Chesapeake’s facilities, or those of its suppliers or customers, could result in a significant decrease in revenues or a significant increase in repair costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The risk of terrorism and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane, refined fuels and natural gas. Terrorist attacks, political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely affect the price and availability of propane, refined fuels and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of propane), and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport propane and natural gas if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity and hostilities in the Middle East could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for propane, refined fuels and natural gas. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Page 17 Table of Contents Operational interruptions to our gas transmission and distribution activities, caused by accidents, malfunctions, severe weather (such as a major hurricane), a pandemic or acts of terrorism, could adversely impact earnings. Inherent in our gas transmission and distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures and mechanical problems. If they are severe enough or if they lead to operational interruptions, they could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Unionization campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company may become a target of unionization campaigns. Unions may attempt to pressure Chesapeake’s employees to choose union representation. Such campaigns could be materially disruptive to our business and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory and Legal Risks Regulation of the Company, including changes in the regulatory environment, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Delaware, Maryland and Florida PSCs regulate our natural gas distribution operations in those States; ESNG is regulated by the FERC. These commissions set the rates that we can charge customers for services subject to their regulatory jurisdiction. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases and rate supplements to maintain current rates of return depends on regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that our regulated operations will be able to obtain such approvals or maintain currently authorized rates of return. We are dependent upon construction of new facilities to support future growth in earnings in our natural gas distribution and interstate pipeline operations. Construction of new facilities required to support future growth is subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (a) our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; (b) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (c) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; (d) lack of anticipated future growth in available natural gas supply; and (e) insufficient customer throughput commitments. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and delivering natural gas and propane to end users. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Environmental Risks Costs of compliance with environmental laws may be significant. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental effects at current and former operating sites, including former manufactured gas plant sites that we have acquired from third parties. Compliance with these legal obligations requires us to commit capital. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if such failure is caused by factors beyond our control, we may be assessed civil or criminal penalties and fines. Page 18 Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2008 Form 10-K Table of Contents To date, we have been able to recover, through regulatory rate mechanisms, the costs associated with the remediation of former manufactured gas plant sites. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover future remediation costs in the same manner or at all. A change in our approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former manufactured gas plant sites could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted and be applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in additional operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs, including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: • result in increased costs associated with our operations; • increase other costs to our business; • affect the demand for natural gas and propane; and • impact the prices we charge our customers. Any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 