Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the primary factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of the regulated and unregulated businesses of Chesapeake. Refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect the Company’s operations and/or financial performance. The principal business, economic and other factors that affect the operations and/or financial performance of the Company include: Fluctuations in weather have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our utility and propane distribution operations are sensitive to fluctuations in weather, and weather conditions directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane delivered by our utility and propane distribution operations to customers. A significant portion of our utility and propane distribution operations’ revenues are derived from the delivery of natural gas and propane to residential and commercial heating customers during the five-month peak heating season of November through March. If the weather is warmer than normal, we deliver less natural gas and propane to customers, and earn less revenue. In addition, hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas and propane, increased supply costs and higher prices for customers. Regulation of the Company, including changes in the regulatory environment in general, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The state Public Service Commissions of Delaware, Maryland and Florida regulate our natural gas distribution operations. Eastern Shore, our natural gas transmission subsidiary, is regulated by the FERC. These regulatory agencies set the rates in their respective jurisdictions that we can charge customers for our rate-regulated services. Changes in these rates, as ordered by regulatory commissions, affect our financial performance. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases and rate supplements to maintain current rates of return depends on regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that our divisions and Eastern Shore will be able to obtain rate increases or supplements or continue receiving currently authorized rates of return. - Page 8 - The amount and availability of natural gas and propane supplies are difficult to predict, which may reduce our earnings. Natural gas and propane production can be impacted by factors outside of our control, such as weather and refinery closings. If we are unable to obtain sufficient natural gas and propane supplies to meet demand, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We rely on having access to interstate pipelines’ transportation and storage capacity. If these pipelines or storage facilities were not available, it may impair our ability to meet our customers’ full requirements. We must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline and storage capacity to meet customer requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage capacity market, our own on-system resources, as well as, the characteristics of our customer base. Local natural gas distribution companies, including us, and other participants in the energy industry, have raised concerns regarding the future availability of additional upstream interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Additional available pipeline and storage capacity is a business issue that must be managed by us, as our customer base grows. Natural gas and propane commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our natural gas and propane distribution operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas. Over the last four years, natural gas costs have increased significantly and become more volatile. In addition, the hurricane activity in 2005 reduced the natural gas available from the Gulf Coast region, further contributing to the volatility of natural gas prices. Higher natural gas prices can result in significant increases in the cost of gas billed to customers during the winter heating season. Under our regulated gas cost recovery mechanisms, we record cost of gas expense equal to the cost of gas recovered in revenues from customers. Therefore, an increase in the cost of gas due to an increase in the price of the natural gas commodity generally has no immediate effect on our revenues and net income. However, our net income may be reduced due to higher expenses that may be incurred for uncollectible customer accounts, as well as, lower volumes of natural gas deliveries to customers due to lower natural gas consumption caused by customer conservation. Increases in the price of natural gas also can affect our operating cash flows, as well as the competitiveness of natural gas as an energy source. Propane. The level of profitability in the retail propane business is largely dependent on the difference between the cost of propane and the revenues derived from our sale of propane to our customers. Propane costs are subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including economic and political factors impacting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. Propane cost changes can occur rapidly over a short period of time and can impact profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on propane cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when propane costs increase or decrease rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year to year as product costs fluctuate with propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, retail sales volumes may be negatively impacted by customer conservation efforts and increased amounts of uncollectible accounts, which may adversely affect net income. We compete in a competitive environment and may be faced with losing customers to a competitor. We compete with third-party suppliers to sell gas to industrial customers. As it relates to transportation services, our competitors include the interstate pipelines if distribution customer is located close enough to the transmission company’s pipeline to make a connection economically feasible. Our propane distribution operations compete with several other propane distributors in their service territories, primarily on the basis of service and price, emphasizing reliability of service and responsiveness. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources. The retail propane industry is mature, and we foresee only modest growth in total demand. Given this limited growth, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow the propane distribution business is contingent upon execution of our community gas systems strategy to capture market share and to employ service pricing programs that retain and grow our customer base. Any failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results. - Page 9 - The propane wholesale marketing operation competes against various marketers, many of which have significantly greater resources and are able to obtain price or volumetric advantages. The advanced information services business faces significant competition from a number of larger competitors having substantially greater resources available to them to compete on the basis of technological expertise, reputation and price. Costs of compliance with environmental laws may be significant. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental effects at current and former operating sites, including former manufactured gas plant sites that we have acquired from third parties. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit capital toward environmental compliance. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if such failure is caused by factors beyond our control, we may be assessed civil or criminal penalties and fines. To date, we have been able to recover through approved rate mechanisms the costs of recovery associated with the remediation of former manufactured gas plant sites. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover future remediation costs in the same manner or at all. A change in our approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former manufactured gas plant sites could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in additional operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable by us. A change in the economic conditions and interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. A downturn in the economies of the regions in which we operate, which we cannot accurately predict, might adversely affect our ability to increase our customer base and other businesses at the same rate they have grown in the recent past. Further, an increase in interest rates, without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates we charge our utility customers, could adversely affect future earnings. An increase in short-term interest rates would negatively affect our results of operations, which depend on short-term debt to finance accounts receivable, storage gas inventories, and to temporarily finance capital expenditures. Inflation may impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Inflation affects the cost of supply, labor, products and services required for operations, maintenance and capital improvements. While the impact of inflation has remained low in recent years, natural gas and propane prices are subject to rapid fluctuations. To help cope with the effects of inflation on our capital investments and returns, we seek rate relief from regulatory commissions for regulated operations while monitoring the returns of our unregulated business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate and timely rate relief to offset the effects of inflation. To compensate for fluctuations in propane gas prices, we adjust our propane selling prices to the extent allowed by the market. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to fully compensate for such fluctuations in the cost of propane gas to us. Changes in technology may adversely affect our advanced information services segment’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our advanced information services segment participates in a market that is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. The success of our advanced information services segment depends upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep up with technological advancements necessary to make our products competitive. - Page 10 - Our energy marketing subsidiaries have credit risk and credit requirements that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Xeron, our propane wholesale and marketing subsidiary, and PESCO, our natural gas marketing subsidiary in Florida, extend credit to counter-parties. While we believe Xeron and PESCO utilize prudent credit policies, each of these subsidiaries is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counter-party to such a transaction fails to perform and any underlying collateral is inadequate, we could experience financial losses. Xeron and PESCO are dependent upon the availability of credit to buy propane and natural gas for resale or to trade. If the financial condition of these subsidiaries declines, or if our financial condition declines, then the cost of credit available to these subsidiaries could increase. If credit is not available, or if credit is more costly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our use of derivative instruments may adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuating commodity prices cause our earnings and financing costs to be impacted. Our propane distribution and wholesale marketing segment uses derivative instruments, including forwards, swaps and puts, to hedge price risk. In addition, we have utilized in the past, and may decide, after further evaluation, to continue to utilize derivative instruments to hedge price risk for our Delaware and Maryland divisions, as well as PESCO. While we have a risk management policy and operating procedures in place to control our exposure to risk, if we purchase derivative instruments that are not properly matched to our exposure, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial conditions may be adversely impacted. Inability to access the capital markets may impair our future growth. We rely on access to both short-term and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. Currently, $55 million of the total $80 million of short-term lines of credit utilized to satisfy our short-term financing requirements are discretionary, uncommitted lines of credit. We utilize discretionary lines of credit to reduce the cost associated with these short-term financing requirements. We are committed to maintaining a sound capital structure and strong credit ratings to provide the financial flexibility needed to access the capital markets when required. However, if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth may be limited. We are dependent upon access to natural gas supply and the construction of new facilities to support future growth in earnings in our utilities and the interstate pipeline. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, include but not limited to our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; lack of anticipated future growth in natural gas supply; and lack of transportation or throughput commitments. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing natural gas and propane to end users. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance; however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. - Page 11 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 