Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the primary factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of the regulated and unregulated businesses of Chesapeake. Refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect the Company’s operations and/or financial performance. The principal business, economic and other factors that affect the operations and/or financial performance of the Company include: Fluctuations in weather have the potential to adversely affect the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Company’s regulated utility and propane distribution operations are weather sensitive, with a significant portion of its revenues derived from the delivery of natural gas and propane to residential and commercial heating customers during the winter season. Generally, weather conditions directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane delivered by the regulated utility and propane distribution operations. Regulation of Chesapeake, including changes in the regulatory environment in general, may adversely affect the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The state Public Service Commissions of Delaware, Maryland and Florida regulate the natural gas distribution operations. The Company’s natural gas transmission operation is regulated by the FERC. These regulatory commissions set the rates in their respective jurisdictions that the Company can charge customers for its rate-regulated services. Changes in these rates, as ordered by regulatory commissions, affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company expects that regulatory commissions will continue to set the prices for delivery service that give it an opportunity to earn a just and reasonable rate of return on the capital invested in its distribution system and to recover reasonable operating expenses. The amount and availability of natural gas and propane supplies are difficult to predict, which may reduce our earnings. Natural gas and propane production can be impacted by factors outside of the Company’s control, such as weather and refinery closings. The Company believes it has adequate resources to meet its customer’s needs. See discussion on adequacy of resources in Item 1 under the heading “Business — Narrative Description of Business.” - Page 8 - Chesapeake relies on direct connections to interstate pipelines and storage capacity. If these pipelines or storage facilities were unable to deliver for any reason it could impair Chesapeake’s ability to meet its customers’ full requirements. Chesapeake is responsible for acquiring both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline and storage capacity to meet customer requirements. As such, Chesapeake must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity to its distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage capacity market, its own on-system peak-shaving facilities, as well as the characteristics of its customer base. Local distribution companies, including Chesapeake, along with other participants in the energy industry, have raised concerns regarding the gradual depletion in the availability of additional upstream interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Diminishing pipeline and storage capacity is a business issue that must be managed by the Company, whose customer base has grown at an annual rate between seven and nine percent. This rate of growth is expected to continue. To help maintain the adequacy of pipeline and storage capacity for its growing customer base, the Company has contracted with various interstate pipeline and storage companies for the acquisition of additional existing capacity, as well as, the construction of new capacity by ESNG. The Company will continue to monitor other opportunities to acquire or participate in obtaining additional pipeline and storage capacity that will improve or maintain the high level of service expected by its customer base. Natural gas and propane commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of the company’s natural gas and propane distribution operations, which could adversely affect its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural Gas Increased prices of natural gas are being driven by increased demand that is exceeding the growth in available supply. As discussed above, the fall 2005 hurricane season significantly reduced the current and anticipated availability of natural gas supply from the Gulf Coast region, causing a dramatic rise in natural gas prices during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. The higher natural gas prices resulted in significant increases in the cost of gas billed to customers during the upcoming 2005-2006 winter heating season. Under its regulated gas cost recovery mechanisms, Chesapeake records cost of gas expense equal to the cost of gas recovered in revenues from customers. Accordingly, an increase in the cost of gas due to an increase in the purchase price of the natural gas commodity generally has no direct effect on the regulated utility’s net revenues and net income. However, net income may be reduced due to higher expenses that may be incurred for uncollectible customer accounts, as well as lower volumes of natural gas deliveries to firm customers that may result due to lower natural gas consumption caused by customer conservation. Increases in the price of natural gas also can affect the Company’s operating cash flows, as well as the competitiveness of natural gas as an energy source. Propane The level of profitability in the retail propane business is largely dependent on the difference between retail sales price and product cost. The unit cost of propane is subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including, but not limited to, economic and political factors impacting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. Product cost changes can occur rapidly over a short period of time and can impact profitability. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to pass on product cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when product costs increase or decrease rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year to year as product costs fluctuate with propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, as was experienced in fiscal 2005, retail sales volumes may be negatively impacted by customer conservation efforts and increased amounts of uncollected accounts. The replacement of less efficient gas appliances with more energy efficient appliances will result in a decline of consumption per customer, which will lead to reduced revenues. Natural gas and propane supply requirements may be affected by changes in natural gas and propane consumption by end-use customers. Natural gas and propane usage per customer will decline as customers replace older, less efficient gas appliances with more efficient appliances. In addition, homebuilders in each of the growth areas are installing the newer, more efficient appliances in the homes they build. - Page 9 - Each of Chesapeake’s segments competes in a competitive environment and may be faced with losing customers to a competitor. See discussion on competition in Item 7 under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Competition.” A change in Chesapeake’s approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former manufacturer gas sites could adversely affect the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations related to environmental matters. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long time frame to control environmental effects. Refer to Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of these matters. A change in the economic conditions and interest rates could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and cash flows. The Company and its subsidiaries operate in one of the fastest growing regions in the nation. The continued prosperity of this region, supported by a relatively low interest-rate environment, has allowed our regulated utility to expand its delivery services to its customer base at a rate of growth approximately twice the national industry average during the past five years. A downturn in the economy of the region in which we operate, or a significant increase in interest rates, which cannot be predicted with accuracy, might adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow its regulated utility customer base and other businesses at the same rate they have grown in the recent past. The Company has been operating in a relatively low interest-rate environment in the recent past as it relates to long-term debt financings. Short-term interest rates had been relatively low in relation to historical levels; however, actions and communications by the Federal Reserve in the past year have resulted in increases in short-term interest rates. A rise in interest rates without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates the Company charges its utility customers could adversely affect future earnings. A rise in short-term interest rates would negatively affect the results of operations, which depend on short-term debt to finance accounts receivable and storage gas inventories. Inflation / Deflation conditions may impact Chesapeake’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. See discussion on competition in Item 7 under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Inflation.” Changes in technology could adversely affect the Company’s advanced information services segment’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The advanced information services segment participates in a market that is characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. The success of our advanced information services segment depends upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis, and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. The Company’s propane wholesale and marketing operation has credit risk that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The propane wholesale and marketing operation extends credit to its counter-parties. Despite prudent credit policies, the Company is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counter-party to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral the Company has secured is inadequate, the Company could experience financial losses. Chesapeake’s use of derivative instruments could adversely affect the company’s results of operations. The Company’s propane distribution operation uses derivative instruments, including forwards, swaps, and puts, to hedge propane price risk. Fluctuating propane prices cause earnings and financing costs of Chesapeake to be impacted. The use of derivative instruments that are not perfectly matched to the exposure could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial conditions. - Page 10 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 