Item 1A. Risk Factors We have listed below certain of the risk factors relating to us and our securities. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we may face and of which we are currently unaware which could also adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. If any of such risks or uncertainties arise, or the risks listed below occur, our operations, earnings and financial condition could be materially harmed, which, in turn, would most likely adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Any such event could negatively impact a shareholder’s investment in the company. Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive government regulation Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal and state government regulations, which include: ● licensing requirements for each dialysis center ● government healthcare program participation requirements 20 ● reimbursement for patient services ● patient referral prohibitions; broad federal and state Anti-Kickback regulations ● false claims prohibitions for health care reimbursement and other fraud and abuse regulations ● record keeping requirements ● health, safety and environmental compliance ● expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data ● standards for the exchange of electronic health information; electronic transactions and code sets; unique identifiers for providers ● medical waste disposal regulations Many of these laws and regulations are complex and open to further judicial and legislative interpretations. If we are forced to change our method of operations because of these regulations, our earnings, financial condition and business could be adversely affected. The imposition of additional licensing and other regulatory requirements may, among other things, increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violation of these governmental regulations could involve substantial civil and criminal penalties and fines, revocation of our licenses, closure of one or more of our centers, and our exclusion from participating in Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any loss of federal or state certifications or licenses would materially adversely impact our business. Our arrangements with our physician medical directors do not meet the safe harbor provisions of federal and state laws, and may subject us to greater governmental scrutiny Neither our arrangements with the medical directors of our facilities, typically retained by us as independent contractors under a fixed fee medical director agreement, nor the minority ownership interests of physicians in certain of our dialysis facilities meet all of the requirements of safe harbors to the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. These laws impose civil and criminal sanctions on persons who receive or make payments for referring a patient for treatment that is paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar state programs. Transactions and arrangements involving physician minority ownership that do not fall within a safe harbor may be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies, and if determined to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or Stark II law could subject us to repayment of certain reimbursement amounts, monetary penalties and exclusion from further participation in government programs. If we are unable to modify the arrangement to satisfy the applicable laws and safe-harbor provisions, we would not be allowed to accept patient referrals from the physician with whom we have the arrangement. In any of these circumstances, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to Medicare and Medicaid audits with concurrent potential civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply We are subject to periodic audits by the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which have various rights and remedies if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. Rights and remedies available under these programs include repayment of any amounts alleged to be overpayments or in violation of program requirements, or making deductions from future amounts due to us. These programs may also impose fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. In the ordinary course of our business, we may receive notices of deficiencies for failure to comply with various regulatory requirements. We review such notices and take appropriate corrective action. In most cases, we and the reviewing agency will agree upon the measures that will bring the 21 center or services into compliance. In some cases or upon repeat violations, none of which we have experienced, the reviewing agency may take various adverse actions against a provider, including but not limited to: ● the imposition of fines; ● suspension of payments for new admissions to the center; and ● in extreme circumstances, decertification from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs and revocation of a center’s license. Any such regulatory actions could adversely affect a center’s ability to continue to operate, to provide certain services, and/or its eligibility to participate in Medicare or Medicaid programs or to receive payments from other payors. Moreover, regulatory actions against one center may subject our other centers, which may be deemed under our common control or ownership, to similar adverse remedies. There has been increased governmental focus and enforcement with respect to anti-fraud initiatives as they relate to healthcare providers State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. Legislation has expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader powers to exclude providers from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We have established policies and procedures that we believe are sufficient to ensure that our facilities will operate in substantial compliance with these anti-fraud requirements. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Anti-fraud actions could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and financial stability are dependent on fixed reimbursement rates under Medicare and Medicaid During 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 52%, 49% and 46%, respectively, of our patient revenues was derived from Medicare reimbursement and 9%, 8% and 8%, respectively, of our patient revenues was derived from Medicaid and equivalent programs. Federal and state governments seek to maintain, if not reduce, costs including through: ● reductions in payments to us or government programs in which we participate ● inclusion of those ancillary services which we currently bill separately in the flat composite rate for dialysis treatments Changes implemented by Congress in recent years, including modest percentage increases in the Medicare composite rate (the fixed payment rate for a dialysis treatment including related supplies, laboratory tests and pharmaceuticals) while at the same time modifying the bases by which CMS reimburses for separately billable services and pharmaceuticals, such as EPO, did not, in the aggregate, significantly impact our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Nevertheless, the government has continued to review the processes for reimbursement of dialysis services and in July, 2008, Congress passed the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act which, while providing for marginal increases in the composite rate for 2009 and 2010, establishes “bundled” payments for all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment beginning in 2011 at an initial rate set at 2% below the payment rate that providers historically received under prior methodologies. From and after 2012, although the new single bundled payment base rate will be adjusted annually for inflation 22 based upon a market basket index less 1% of such index, the bundled payment rate will be subject to the discretion of the Secretary of HHS based on the goods and services being provided. Although we have not been materially impacted by prior adjustments in reimbursement rates relative to our operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, because the bundled rates that will take effect in 2011 have not been set, we cannot predict the effect of those future rates on our operating costs and expenses. Changes in the Medicare program, including the bundling of payments under the composite rate for dialysis services, combined with possible negative adjustments in reimbursement could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operation and financial position. If government agencies delay in providing certification and/or reimbursement for our facilities we could experience reduced cash flows and adverse effects on our earnings and operations In light of the current economic and fiscal environments, the budgets of state governments are under significant constraints. Several states, albeit none in which we currently operate or are seeking to develop or acquire additional centers, have already advised that they are curtailing or delaying their ESRD certification processes for the remainder of 2009 and possibly longer. In order for a newly developed or acquired dialysis center of the company to submit bills for patients treated at that facility who are enrolled in a government based program, that facility must be certified to participate in such government based programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. To the extent that additional states, particularly ones in which the company operates or is seeking to develop or acquire additional centers, experience certification delays or seek to delay or reduce reimbursement payments, we could experience reduced cash flow as well as adverse impacts on our earnings and results of operations. A decline in the reimbursement payments from third-party, non-government payors as well as a change in patient coverage from commercial to Medicare could adversely affect our earnings The dialysis services industry is experiencing a growing number of commercial payors seeking to reduce payment rates as a result of several factors, including a greater focus by these payors on dialysis services and market conditions generally. Some of these commercial payors are increasingly aggressive in attempting to negotiate lower contracted payment rates and imposing limitations on out-of-network access and payment rates. A decline in the rates paid by commercial payors, hospitals and other non-governmental third-party organizations would adversely affect our business. Additionally, any change in patient coverage, such as Medicare eligibility as opposed to higher private insurance coverage, would result in a reduction of revenue. We estimate approximately 39%, 43% and 46% of our patient revenues for 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, was obtained from sources other than Medicare or Medicaid and equivalent programs. We generally charge non-governmental organizations for dialysis treatment rates which exceed the fixed Medicare and Medicaid and equivalent rates. If commercial payors reduce their payments or we experience a shift in revenue mix toward Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement, then our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would be adversely affected. Our cash flow, earnings and financial condition could be adversely impacted to the extent that the current economic and financial crises affecting the United States continues for an extended period of time Our revenues and earnings are based upon a payor mix balance that has reflected an increase in recent years of revenues from commercial payor reimbursement. To the extent, however, that the current economic slowdown and financial crisis affecting the United States persists for an extended period of time, we may face a number of potential effects that could materially impact our revenues, earnings and financial condition. In particular, continued increases in job losses could result in a decrease in the number of our patients covered by commercial insurance, from which reimbursement payments generally exceed that of government based programs. Furthermore, employers facing operating cost pressures may 23 seek out alternative insurance plans that offer reduced reimbursement rates. Finally, both commercial payors themselves as well as federal and state governments may engage in efforts to further reduce and/or delay reimbursement payments for our services to the extent that economic conditions continue to worsen. Any decrease in the availability of or the reimbursement rate of EPO would reduce our revenues and earnings EPO is currently available from a single manufacturer, Amgen, Inc. The available supply of EPO could be delayed or reduced, whether by Amgen itself, through unforeseen circumstances, or as a result of excessive demand. In addition, Amgen could increase the price of EPO. This could adversely impact our revenues and profitability, since approximately 28% of our medical services revenues in 2006, 27% in 2007 and 27% in 2008 were based upon the administration of EPO to our dialysis patients. Most of our EPO reimbursement is from government programs. For 2008, 68% of total EPO revenue was derived from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. In recent years, CMS revised its rules for reimbursement of pharmaceuticals, including EPO, which resulted in a net reduction of average Medicare payment rates. In 2006, reimbursement for EPO was at the average sales price plus 6%, which resulted in lower reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, but was offset by the 1.6% composite rate increase. If government or commercial payors further reduce reimbursement for EPO, then our revenues and earnings per treatment may decline. Further changes and rules intended to address EPO and other pharmaceuticals could adversely affect our revenues and income. Changes in Medicare reimbursement criteria have impacted EPO revenue. CMS implemented a national monitoring policy for EPO claims in April, 2006, which aimed to reduce reimbursement for EPO utilization above a certain hemotacrit threshold in a patient. The policy also limited the quantity of EPO that could be administered in a month, regardless of hematocrit levels. We revised our protocols on anemia management to address this policy and did not incur an adverse impact on our results of operations. Nevertheless, since the latter part of 2006 a significant amount of government and media attention has been paid to the management of anemia generally in all fields of medicine resulting in congressional hearings and FDA required label changes to EPO and Aranesp® which have been and are continuing to be examined. In January, 2008, CMS put into effect additional changes to its EPO monitoring policy intended to further limit reimbursement. Commercial payors may also follow suit as they direct greater scrutiny to their policies for EPO use as part of their overall analysis of dialysis services reimbursement. Further changes in EPO administration policies that result in further restrictions on utilization could result in a decline in our revenues and earnings per treatment. New drugs could affect use of EPO, adversely impacting our profitability. Amgen is the sole manufacturer of EPO, which is administered in conjunction with dialysis treatments to address a patient’s anemia. Amgen has developed the drug Aranesp®, and Roche has developed Mircera®, each of which can be used to treat anemia, and which are indicated to be effective for longer periods than EPO. Based on their longer lasting capabilities, potential margins on these alternative pharmaceuticals could be significantly lower than on EPO, and furthermore, their potential for being administered by a dialysis patient’s physician, could further eliminate potential revenues from the treatment of anemia in our dialysis patients. The introduction and marketing of alternative pharmaceuticals as an anemia treatment for dialysis patients, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Currently, Mircera® is not available for use in the United States due to a patent held by Amgen. 24 Disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain, particularly with pharmaceuticals, could negatively impact our earnings and financial condition Last year Baxter Healthcare Corporation engaged in a recall of heparin, a pharmaceutical used in the provision of dialysis services, and shortly thereafter ceased further sales of this pharmaceutical altogether, leaving one supplier of heparin in the United States. The price for heparin has since increased nearly four-fold and may continue to rise in the future. While we do not believe, given our historical utilization of heparin, that the current price will materially affect our earnings, continued increases in the price, or limitations on the availability of this pharmaceutical could negatively impact our operations and earnings. Similarly, while we rely on a number of vendors for our dialysis supplies and pharmaceuticals, to the extent that such supply were disrupted for an extended period of time, our inability to identify and establish a cost-effective replacement could significantly impact our operations, earnings and financial position. Our ability to grow is subject to our resources and available locations Over the past several years we have both built and acquired several dialysis centers, in some cases with partners holding a minority interest. We seek areas with qualified and cost-effective nursing and technical personnel and a sufficient population to sustain a dialysis center. These opportunities are limited and we compete with much larger dialysis companies for appropriate locations. Our growth strategy based on construction also involves the risks of our ability to identify suitable locations to develop additional centers. Those we do develop may never achieve profitability, and additional financing may not be available to finance future development. Our inability to acquire or develop dialysis centers in a cost-effective manner would adversely affect our ability to expand our business and as a result, our profitability. Growth places significant demands on our financial and management skills. Inability on our behalf to meet the challenges of expansion and to manage any such growth would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our attempt to expand through development or acquisition of dialysis centers which are not currently identified entails risks which shareholders and investors will not have a basis to evaluate We expand generally by seeking an appropriate location for a dialysis center and by taking into consideration the potential geographic patient base, types of commercial insurance in the area, the availability of a physician nephrologist to be our medical director, and a skilled work force. Construction, equipment and initial working capital costs for a new dialysis center with 15 stations, typically the size of our dialysis facilities, range from $1,000,000 to $1,500,000. While and acquisition of existing outpatient dialysis centers is a faster means for achieving profitability, these transactions can be more costly. Therefore, the company takes a selective approach to its acquisition strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring dialysis facilities, or otherwise successfully expanding our operations. We are routinely negotiating with nephrologists and others to establish new dialysis centers, but we cannot assure you that these negotiations will result in the development of new centers. Furthermore, there is no basis for shareholders and investors to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any potential development or acquisition of dialysis facilities. 25 We depend on physician referrals, and the limitation or cessation of such referrals would adversely impact our revenues and earnings Most dialysis facilities, including ours, are dependent upon referrals of ESRD patients for treatment by physicians, primarily those physicians specializing in nephrology. We retain by written agreement qualified physicians or groups of qualified physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our facilities. The medical directors are typically a source of patients treated at the particular facility served. There is no requirement for these physicians to refer their patients to us, and they are free to refer patients to any other dialysis facility. The loss of the patient base of the medical director or other physicians in the area of our facilities could result in a decline in our operations, revenues and earnings. We may not be able to renew or otherwise negotiate compensation under the medical director agreements with our medical director physicians which could terminate the relationship, and without a suitable medical director replacement could result in closure of the facility. Accordingly, the loss of these key physicians at a particular facility could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the facility and could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Most of our medical director agreements range in terms of from five to ten years with renewals, and we have had no difficulty in renewing agreements as they have expired. All the medical director agreements provide for noncompetition restrictions. We have never had to attempt to enforce such restrictions, but there is no assurance that a particular jurisdiction in which the agreement is applicable would uphold such noncompetition agreement, which would increase the potential for competition with affiliated dialysis centers and could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Some of our medical directors or the medical groups with whom they are associated own minority interests in certain of our subsidiaries which operate dialysis centers. If these interests are deemed to violate applicable federal or state law, these physicians may be forced to dispose of their ownership interests. Industry changes could adversely affect our business Healthcare organizations, public and private, continue to change the manner in which they operate and pay for services. Our business is designed to function within the current healthcare financing and reimbursement system. In recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing levels of government regulation of reimbursement rates and capital expenditures, among other things. In addition, proposals to reform the healthcare system have been considered by Congress, and still remain a priority issue. Any new legislative initiatives, if enacted, may (i) further increase government regulation of or other involvement in healthcare, (ii) lower reimbursement rates, and (iii) otherwise change the operating environment for healthcare companies. We cannot predict the likelihood of those events or what impact they may have on our results of operation, financial position or cash flows. Our business is subject to substantial competition, and we must compete effectively, otherwise our growth could slow We are operating in a highly competitive environment in terms of the operation, development and acquisition of dialysis centers. Our competition comes from other dialysis centers, many of which are owned by much larger companies, and from hospitals. We also compete with physicians who open their own dialysis facilities. The dialysis industry is rapidly consolidating, resulting in several large dialysis companies competing for the acquisition of existing dialysis centers and the development of relationships with referring physicians. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, more dialysis facilities and a significantly larger patient base. Competition for acquiring existing centers has increased the costs of acquiring such facilities. 26 Competition is also intense for qualified nursing and technical staff as well as for nephrologists with an adequate patient base. Although we have exhibited growth over the last several years, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to do so could impair our continued growth and profitability. Interest rate volatility could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows We have successfully increased our borrowing capabilities in order to pursue our near term growth strategy. As a result, our borrowings under our principal credit facility have increased in recent periods. The majority of the loans under the credit facility are currently based on LIBOR-based variable rates. To the extent that these rates were to increase, our interest expense relating to the variable rates would increase, impacting our debt service and cash flows, and could negatively impact our profitability. If the enhancements that we are currently making to our billing and clinical systems do not function effectively, we may experience adverse effects on our cash flow and operating results We are in the process of establishing a new company-wide clinical and billing system that will significantly improve our efficiencies with respect to the compilation, processing and distribution of billing and collection information as well as our ability to monitor clinical information on our patients. In part, the system is intended to shift information gathering and processing to real time electronic transmission from all of the facilities and away from manual processing at the facility level. While we intend to perform all appropriate tests of the system as it comes online at each facility, the potential exists for malfunctions or integration issues to arise as the system becomes integrated with the operations of the company. To the extent that system malfunctions occur, we may be delayed in processing our billing and collections at one or more facilities. If these delays continue our revenues, cash flows and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We could be subject to professional liability claims that may adversely affect us Operation of dialysis centers and, in particular, the provision of dialysis treatments to ESRD patients, entails significant risks of liability, as is the case with most healthcare treatment services. Accordingly, we could be subject to various actions and claims of professional liability alleging negligence in the performance of our treatment and related services, as well as for the acts or omissions of our employees. As we grow and the number of our patients increases, so too does our exposure increase to potential malpractice, professional negligence, and other related legal theories and causes of action. These potential claims could seek substantial damages, possibly beyond our insurance coverage, and could subject us to the incurrence of significant fees and costs related to defending such potential claims. Such potential future claims for malpractice or professional liability, including any judgments, settlements or costs associated with such claims and actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our insurance costs and deductibles have been substantially increasing over the last several years, and may not be sufficient to cover claims and losses We maintain a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in our business, including, and of primary importance, professional liability insurance, subject to certain deductibles. The premiums and deductibles under our insurance program have been increasing over the last several years as a result of general business rate increases coupled with our continued growth and development of dialysis centers. We are unable to predict further increases in premiums and deductibles, but based on experience we anticipate further increases in this area, which could adversely impact earnings. The liability exposure of operations in the healthcare services industry has increased, resulting not only in increased premiums, but in limited liability on behalf of the insurance carriers. Our ability to obtain the 27 necessary and sufficient insurance coverage for our operations upon expiration of our insurance policies may be limited, and sufficient insurance may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such insurance may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to potential future claims, complaints or law suits. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance for our operations, or if we obtain insurance which is limited, any future significant judgments, settlements and costs relating to future potential actions, suits or claims, could have an adverse effect on our company. Shares eligible for future sale by restricted shareholders may adversely affect our stock price Our officers and directors own approximately 2,165,000 shares of our common stock and vested options exercisable into an additional 40,000 shares of common stock, for an aggregate of 2,205,000 shares or approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. All of the shares held by these officers and directors, other than the 40,000 shares obtainable upon exercise of their options, upon satisfying the conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, may be sold without complying with the registration provisions of the Securities Act. Rule 144 conditions include: ● holding the shares for six months from acquisition; ● volume limits of selling every three months an amount of shares which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the outstanding common stock, or the average weekly volume of trading as reported by Nasdaq during the four calendar weeks prior to the sale; ● filing Form 144 with the SEC; ● the company continuing to timely file its reports under the Exchange Act; Our publicly tradable common stock, known as the float, is approximately 7,430,000 shares. Our common stock owned by our officers and directors represent approximately 29% of the float. Accordingly, the sale by such officers and directors under Rule 144 may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock, and may inhibit our ability to manage subsequent equity or debt financing. Over the last year, our stock price has exhibited volatility, and any investment in our common stock may, therefore, decline for reasons unrelated to our performance Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “DCAI.” The market price of our common stock has exhibited volatility. For fiscal 2008, our per share price range was $5.20 to $9.46. Other than the continued growth of the company, there was no information known to management that would cause significant fluctuation in the price of our common stock, or in the trading volume. Other factors that could continue to cause fluctuation in our common stock include: ● changes in government regulation, whether legislative, enforcement or reimbursement rates ● third party reports relating to the dialysis industry and our company (unsolicited by management) ● announcements by management relating to the company’s performance or other material events ● actions and announcements by our competitors ● the outlook for the healthcare industry, and the economic and market conditions generally 28 Investors should understand that in general, stock prices may fluctuate for reasons unrelated to operating results. Any changes in the above discussed factors, or general economic, political, global and market conditions, could result in a decline in the market price and volume of trading in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 