Item 1A. Risk Factors We have listed below certain of the risk factors relating to us and our securities. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we may face and of which we are currently unaware which could also adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. If any of such risks or uncertainties arise, or the risks listed below occur, our operations, earnings and financial condition could be materially harmed, which, in turn, would most likely adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Any such event could negatively impact a shareholder’s investment in the company. Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive government regulation Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal and state government regulations, which include: ● licensing requirements for each dialysis center ● government healthcare program participation requirements ● reimbursement for patient services ● patient referral prohibitions; broad federal and state Anti-Kickback regulations ● false claims prohibitions for health care reimbursement and other fraud and abuse regulations ● record keeping requirements ● health, safety and environmental compliance ● expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data ● standards for the exchange of electronic health information; electronic transactions and code sets; unique identifiers for providers ● medical waste disposal regulations Many of these laws and regulations are complex and open to further judicial and legislative interpretations. If we are forced to change our method of operations because of these regulations, our earnings, financial condition and business could be adversely affected. The imposition of additional licensing and other regulatory requirements may, among other things, increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violation or departure from these governmental regulations could involve substantial civil and criminal penalties and fines, revocation of our licenses, closure of one or more of our centers, and our exclusion from participating in Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any loss of federal or state certifications or licenses would materially a dversely impact our business. 21 Our arrangements with our physician medical directors do not meet the safe harbor provisions of federal and state laws, and may subject us to greater governmental scrutiny Neither our arrangements with the medical directors of our facilities, typically retained by us as independent contractors under a fixed fee medical director agreement, nor the noncontrolling interests of physicians in certain of our dialysis facilities meet all of the requirements of safe harbors to the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. These laws impose civil and criminal sanctions on persons who receive or make payments for referring a patient for treatment that is paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar state programs. Transactions and arrangements involving physician noncontrolling ownership that do not fall within a safe harbor may be subject to g reater scrutiny by enforcement agencies, and if determined to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or Stark II law could subject us to repayment of certain reimbursement amounts, monetary penalties and exclusion from further participation in government programs. If we are unable to modify the arrangement to satisfy the applicable laws and safe-harbor provisions, we would not be allowed to accept patient referrals from the physician with whom we have the arrangement. In any of these circumstances, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to Medicare and Medicaid audits with concurrent potential civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply We are subject to periodic audits by the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which have various rights and remedies if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. Rights and remedies available under these programs include repayment of any amounts alleged to be overpayments or in violation of program requirements, or making deductions from future amounts due to us. These programs may also impose fines, or program exclusions, and violations could also result in criminal penalties. In the ordinary course of our business, we may receive notices of deficiencies for failure to comply with various regulatory requirements. We review such notices and take appropriate corrective action. In most cases, we and the reviewing agency will agree upon the measures that will bring the center or services into compliance. In some cases or upon repeat violations, none of which we have experienced, the reviewing agency may take various adverse actions against a provider, including but not limited to: ● the imposition of fines; ● suspension of payments for new admissions to the center; ● in extreme circumstances, decertification from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, ● revocation of a center’s license. Any such regulatory actions could adversely affect a center’s ability to continue to operate, to provide certain services, and/or its eligibility to participate in Medicare or Medicaid programs or to receive payments from other payors. Moreover, regulatory actions against one center may subject our other centers, which may be deemed under our common control or ownership, to similar adverse remedies. A recent subpoena from the OIG relating to our utilization of EPO, could distract management’s attention to our business, may cause us to incur significant legal expenses, be subject to substantial monetary penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In February, 2010, we received a subpoena from the OIG with respect to an investigation into our utilization of EPO. The extent and nature of information requested in the OIG subpoena could divert management’s attention from business demands and subject us to significant legal expenses. While there is no indication of such at this time, any negative findings could result in substantial monetary penalties, exclude our company from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. 22 Increasing governmental focus and enforcement of healthcare providers with respect to anti-fraud initiatives could adversely impact our business State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. Legislation has expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader powers to exclude providers from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amendments to the False Claims Act have increased the penalties imposed for providers that knowingly and improperly retain overpayments collected from government payors, and certification inspections of dialysis centers have increased in frequency and intensity. Furthermore, in connection with contemplated healthcare reform, the Office of Inspector General and Recovery Audit Contractors established by CMS have increased inquiries into reimbursement overpayments in connection with ef forts to identify and eliminate alleged fraud. We have established policies and procedures that are intended to ensure that our facilities operate in substantial compliance with anti-fraud requirements. Nevertheless, increased governmental regulation and scrutiny could require us to incur significant costs in enhancing our internal processing systems. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Anti-fraud actions could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and financial stability are dependent on fixed reimbursement rates under Medicare and Medicaid, which rates could decrease in the near future under the proposed “bundled” reimbursement system coming into effect in January 2011 During 2007, 2008 and 2009, approximately 49%, 46% and 47%, respectively, of our patient revenues was derived from Medicare reimbursement and 8%, 8% and 7%, respectively, of our patient revenues was derived from Medicaid and equivalent programs. Federal and state governments seek to maintain, if not reduce, costs including through: ● reductions in payments to us or government programs in which we participate ● inclusion of those ancillary services which we currently bill separately in the flat composite rate for dialysis treatments Changes implemented by Congress in recent years, including modest percentage increases in the Medicare composite rate (the fixed payment rate for a dialysis treatment including related supplies, laboratory tests and certain pharmaceuticals) while at the same time modifying the bases by which CMS reimburses for separately billable services and pharmaceuticals, such as EPO, did not, in the aggregate, significantly impact our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Nevertheless, the government has continued to review the processes for reimbursement of dialysis services and in July, 2008, Congress passed the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, or MIPPA, which, while providing for marginal increases in the composite rate for 2009 and 2010, established “bundled” payments for all goods a nd services provided during the dialysis treatment beginning in 2011 at an initial rate set at 2% below the payment rate that providers historically received under prior methodologies. Proposed rules released by CMS in September 2009 with respect to the bundled payment system include a transition adjustment that could reduce payments to providers by as much as 3%, a provision calling for 2% of payments due providers to be set aside subject to satisfaction of certain quality standards, and a broader inclusion of case-mix items that could further adjust reimbursement rates but which providers may find difficult to properly record and report, any of which could reduce payment rates under a bundled reimbursement system. From and after 2012, the new single bundled payment base rate will be adjusted annually for inflation based upon a market basket index less 1% of such index. Because the bundled rates that will take effect in 2011 have not been set, we cannot predict the effect of those future rates on our operating costs and expenses, and whether we will have to, or be able to, reduce our operating costs to offset a reduction in reimbursement under the bundled system for services we provide to Medicare patients. Further, because certain of our operating costs are subject to inflation, irrespective of any inflation-based increases in reimbursement rates, if bundled payments are set at rates that result in lower overall reimbursement, we will be materially adversely affected. Changes in the Medicare program, including the bundling of payments under the composite rate for dialysis services, combined with possible negative adjustments in reimbursement could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operation and financial position. 23 If government agencies delay in providing certification and/or reimbursement for our facilities we could experience reduced cash flows and adverse effects on our earnings and operations In light of the current economic and fiscal environments, the budgets of state governments are under significant budget constraints. Several states, albeit none in which we currently operate or are seeking to develop or acquire additional centers, advised that they are curtailing or delaying their ESRD certification processes. In order for a newly developed or acquired dialysis center of the company to submit bills for patients treated at that facility who are enrolled in a government based program, that facility must be certified to participate in such government based programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. To the extent that additional states, particularly ones in which the company operates or is seeking to develop or acquire additional centers, exp erience certification delays or seek to delay or reduce Medicaid and equivalent reimbursement payments, we could be forced to recognize or accelerate certain expenses while experiencing reduced cash flow resulting in an adverse impact on our earnings and results of operations. A decline in the reimbursement payments from third-party, non-government payors as well as a change in patient coverage from commercial to Medicare could adversely affect our earnings The dialysis services industry is experiencing a growing number of commercial payors seeking to reduce payment rates as a result of several factors, including a greater focus by these payors on dialysis services and market conditions generally. Some of these commercial payors are increasingly aggressive in attempting to negotiate lower contracted payment rates and imposing limitations on out-of-network access and payment rates. A decline in the rates paid by commercial payors, hospitals and other non-governmental third-party organizations would adversely affect our business. Additionally, any change in patient coverage, such as Medicare eligibility as opposed to higher private insurance coverage, would result in a reduction of revenue. We estimate approximately 43%, 46% and 46% of our patient revenues for 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, was obtained from sources other than Medicare or Medicaid and equivalent programs. We generally receive more from non-governmental organizations for dialysis treatment rates which exceed the fixed Medicare and Medicaid and equivalent rates. If commercial payors reduce their payments or we experience a shift in revenue mix toward Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement, then our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would be adversely affected. Our cash flow, earnings and financial condition could be adversely impacted to the extent that the current economic conditions in the United States continue Our revenues and earnings are based upon a payor mix balance that has reflected an increase in recent years of revenues from commercial payor reimbursement. To the extent, however, that the current employment and financial conditions in the United States continue for an extended period of time, we may face a number of potential effects that could materially impact our revenues, earnings and financial condition. In particular, continued job losses could result in a decrease in the number of our patients covered by commercial insurance generally provided through employer group health plans, from which reimbursement payments generally exceed that of government based programs. Fu rthermore, employers facing operating cost pressures may seek out alternative insurance plans that offer reduced reimbursement rates. Finally, both commercial payors themselves as well as federal and state governments may engage in efforts to further reduce and/or delay reimbursement payments for our services to the extent that economic conditions continue to worsen. 24 In addition, proposed healthcare reform is at the forefront of government debate and may be adopted in the near term. While the specifics of any such reform program, if adopted, remain unclear, to the extent that provisions result in the transition of commercial patients to a broader government insurance system or an overall reduction in reimbursement rates from commercial and/or government payors, our earnings, cash flow and operations could be materially adversely affected. Any decrease in the availability of or the reimbursement rate of EPO would reduce our revenues and earnings EPO, which is administered in conjunction with dialysis treatments to address a patient’s anemia, is currently available from a single manufacturer, Amgen, Inc. The available supply of EPO could be delayed or reduced, whether by Amgen itself, through unforeseen circumstances, or as a result of excessive demand. In addition, Amgen could unilaterally increase the price of EPO. This could adversely impact our revenues and profitability, since approximately 27% of our medical services revenues in 2007 and 2008 and 31% in 2009 were based upon the administration of EPO to our dialysis patients. Most of our EPO reimbursement is from government programs. For 2009, 70% of total EPO revenue was derived from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. In recent years, CMS revised its rules for reimbursement of pharmaceuticals, including EPO, which resulted in a net reduction of average Medicare payment rates. In 2006, reimbursement for EPO was at the average sales price plus 6%, which resulted in lower reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, but was offset by the 1.6% composite rate increase. If government or commercial payors further reduce reimbursement rates for EPO, then our revenues and earnings per treatment may decline. Further changes and rules intended to address the administration of EPO and other pharmaceuticals could adversely affect our revenues and income. Changes in Medicare reimbursement criteria have impacted EPO revenue. CMS implemented a national monitoring policy for EPO claims in April, 2006, which aimed to reduce reimbursement for EPO utilization above a certain hemotacrit threshold in a patient. The policy also limited the quantity of EPO that could be administered in a month, regardless of hematocrit levels. We revised our protocols on anemia management to address this policy and did not incur an adverse impact on our results of operations. Nevertheless, since the latter part of 2006 a significant amount of government and media attention has been paid to the management of anemia generally and the utilization of erythropoesis stimulating agents, or ESAs, including EPO, in all fields of medi cine resulting in congressional hearings in late 2006 and FDA required label changes to EPO and Aranesp® in 2007 which have been and are continuing to be examined. In January, 2008, CMS put into effect additional changes to its EPO monitoring policy intended to further limit reimbursement, and CMS and HHS intend to revisit, in late March, policies involving the administration of ESAs and the effectiveness of certain hemoglobin targets in patients with chronic kidney disease. Commercial payors have also been directing greater scrutiny to their policies for EPO use as part of their overall analysis of dialysis services reimbursement. Among other things, the uncertainty in the nephrology community arising from increased government and media scrutiny of anemia management and ESA administration in 2006 and 2007 combined with the changes implemented by CMS to its EPO monitoring policy initially affected the manner in which physicians prescribed EPO and related pharmaceuticals by reducing their utilization. Further changes in EPO administration policies or labeling that result in further restrictions on utilization, or an altering by physicians of their prescription habits or accepted clinical practices with respect to EPO and related pharmaceutical administration, could result in a decline in our revenues and earnings per treatment. 25 New drugs could affect use of EPO, adversely impacting our profitability. Amgen is the sole manufacturer of EPO. Amgen has developed the drug Aranesp®, and Roche has developed Mircera®, each of which can be used to treat anemia, and which are indicated to be effective for longer periods than EPO. Based on their longer lasting capabilities, potential margins on these alternative pharmaceuticals could be significantly lower than on EPO, and furthermore, their potential for being administered by a dialysis patient’s physician, could further eliminate potential revenues from the treatment of anemia in our dialysis patients. The introduction and marketing of alternative pharmaceuticals as an anemia treatment for dialysis patients, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. & #160;Currently, Mircera® is not available for use in the United States due to patents held by Amgen. Disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain, particularly with pharmaceuticals, could negatively impact our earnings and financial condition During 2008 Baxter Healthcare Corporation engaged in a recall of heparin, a pharmaceutical used in the provision of dialysis services, and shortly thereafter ceased further sales of this pharmaceutical altogether, leaving only one other supplier of heparin in the United States. Consequently, the price for heparin increased nearly four-fold and while the price of Heparin recently stabilized it may rise again in the future. While we do not believe, given our historical utilization of heparin, that the current price will materially affect our earnings, continued increases in the price, or limitations on the availability of this pharmaceutical could negatively impact our operations and earnings. Similarly, while we rely on a number of vendors for our dialysis su pplies and pharmaceuticals, to the extent that such supply were disrupted for an extended period of time, our inability to identify and establish a cost-effective replacement could significantly impact our operations, earnings and financial position. Our ability to grow is subject to our resources and available locations Over the past several years we have both built and acquired several dialysis centers, in some cases with partners holding a noncontrolling interest. We seek areas with qualified and cost-effective nursing and technical personnel and a sufficient population to sustain a dialysis center. These opportunities are limited and we compete with much larger dialysis companies for appropriate locations. Our growth strategy based on construction also involves the risks of our ability to identify suitable locations to develop additional centers. Those we do develop may never achieve profitability, and additional financing may not be available to finance future development. Our inability to acquire or develop dialysis centers in a cost-effective man ner would adversely affect our ability to expand our business and as a result, our profitability. Growth places significant demands on our financial and management skills. Inability on our behalf to meet the challenges of expansion and to manage any such growth would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 26 Our attempt to expand through development or acquisition of dialysis centers which are not currently identified entails risks which shareholders and investors will not have a basis to evaluate We expand generally by seeking an appropriate location for a dialysis center and by taking into consideration the potential geographic patient base, types of commercial insurance in the area, the availability of a physician nephrologist to be our medical director, and a skilled work force. Construction, equipment and initial working capital funding requirements for a new dialysis center with 15 stations, typically the size of our dialysis facilities, ranges from $1.0 million to $1.5 million. While acquisition of existing outpatient dialysis centers is a faster means for achieving profitability, these transactions can be more costly. Therefore, we take a selective approach to our acquisition strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring dialysis facilities, or otherwise successfully expanding our operations. We are routinely negotiating with nephrologists and others to establish new dialysis centers, but we cannot assure you that these negotiations will result in the development of new centers. Furthermore, there is no basis for shareholders and investors to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any potential development or acquisition of dialysis facilities. We depend on physician referrals, and the limitation or cessation of such referrals would adversely impact our revenues and earnings Most dialysis facilities, including ours, are dependent upon referrals of ESRD patients for treatment by physicians, primarily those physicians specializing in nephrology. We retain by written agreement qualified physicians or groups of qualified physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our facilities. The medical directors are typically a source of patients treated at the particular facility served. There is no requirement for these physicians to refer their patients to us, and they are free to refer patients to any other dialysis facility. The loss of the patient base of the medical director or other physicians in the area of our facilities could result in a decline in our operations, revenues and earnings. We may not be able to rene w or otherwise negotiate compensation under the medical director agreements with our medical director physicians which could terminate the relationship, and without a suitable medical director replacement could result in closure of the facility. Accordingly, the loss of these key physicians at a particular facility could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the facility and could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Most of our medical director agreements range in terms of from five to ten years with renewals, and we have had no difficulty in renewing agreements as they have expired. All the medical director agreements provide for noncompetition restrictions. We have never had to attempt to enforce such restrictions, but there is no assurance that a particular jurisdiction in which the agreement is applicable would uphold such noncompetition agreement, which would increase the potential for competition with affiliated dialysis centers and coul d adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Some of our medical directors or the medical groups with whom they are associated own noncontrolling interests in certain of our subsidiaries which operate dialysis centers. If these interests are deemed to violate applicable federal or state law, these physicians may be forced to dispose of their ownership interests, the dialysis center operated by that facility may be required to refuse patient referrals from that physician, and we may be required to repay amounts received from Medicare and related governmental reimbursement services that were deemed to be in violation of applicable referred provisions of the Anti-kickback and Stark laws. In any such case our earnings, cash flow and operations could be adversely affected. 27 Our business is subject to substantial competition, and we must compete effectively, otherwise our growth could slow We are operating in a highly competitive environment in terms of the operation, development and acquisition of dialysis centers. Our competition comes from other dialysis centers, many of which are owned by much larger companies, and from hospitals. We also compete with physicians who open their own dialysis facilities. The dialysis industry is rapidly consolidating, resulting in several large dialysis companies competing for the acquisition of existing dialysis centers and the development of relationships with referring physicians. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, more dialysis facilities and a significantly larger patient base. Competition for acquiring existing centers has increased the costs of acquiring such facilities. Competition is also intense for qualified nursing and technical staff as well as for nephrologists with an adequate patient base. As a result of this competition, we have exhibited slower growth over the last several years and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to do so could impair our continued growth and profitability. Interest rate volatility could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows We have successfully increased our borrowing capabilities in order to pursue our near term growth strategy. The majority of the loans under the credit facility are currently based on LIBOR-based variable rates. To the extent that these rates were to increase, our interest expense relating to the variable rates would increase, impacting our debt service and cash flows, and could negatively impact our profitability. We could be subject to professional liability claims that may adversely affect us Operation of dialysis centers and, in particular, the provision of dialysis treatments to ESRD patients, entails significant risks of liability, as is the case with most healthcare treatment services. Accordingly, we could be subject to various actions and claims of professional liability alleging negligence in the performance of our treatment and related services, as well as for the acts or omissions of our employees. As we grow and the number of our patients increases, so too does our exposure increase to potential malpractice, professional negligence, and other related legal theories and causes of action. These potential claims could seek substantial damages, possibly beyond our insurance coverage, and could subject us to the incurrence of significant fee s and costs related to defending such potential claims. Such potential future claims for malpractice or professional liability, including any judgments, settlements or costs associated with such claims and actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our insurance costs and deductibles have been substantially increasing over the last several years, and may not be sufficient to cover claims and losses We maintain a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in our business, including, and of primary importance, professional liability insurance, subject to certain deductibles. The premiums and deductibles under our insurance program have been increasing over the last several years as a result of general business rate increases coupled with our continued growth and development of dialysis centers. We are unable to predict further increases in premiums and deductibles, but based on experience we anticipate further increases in this area, which could adversely impact earnings. The liability exposure of operations in the healthcare services industry has increased, resulting not only in increased premiums, but in limited liability on behalf of the insurance carriers. Our ability to obtain the necessary and sufficient insurance coverage for our operations upon expiration of our insurance policies may be limited, and sufficient insurance may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such insurance may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to potential future claims, complaints or law suits. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance for our operations, or if we obtain insurance which is limited, any future significant judgments, settlements and costs relating to future potential actions, suits or claims, could have an adverse effect on our company. 28 Shares eligible for future sale by restricted shareholders may adversely affect our stock price Our officers and directors own approximately 2,164,000 shares of our common stock and vested options exercisable into an additional 50,000 shares of common stock, for an aggregate of approximately 2,214,000 shares or approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. All of the shares held by these officers and directors, other than the 50,000 shares obtainable upon exercise of their options, upon satisfying the conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, may be sold without complying with the registration provisions of the Securities Act. Rule 144 conditions include: ● holding the shares for six months from acquisition; ● volume limits of selling every three months an amount of shares which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the outstanding common stock, or the average weekly volume of trading as reported by Nasdaq during the four calendar weeks prior to the sale; ● filing Form 144 with the SEC; ● the company continuing to timely file its reports under the Exchange Act; Our publicly tradable common stock, known as the float, is approximately 7,446,000 shares. Our common stock owned by our officers and directors represent approximately 29% of the float. Accordingly, the sale by such officers and directors under Rule 144 may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock, and may inhibit our ability to manage subsequent equity or debt financing. Over the last year, our stock price has exhibited volatility, and any investment in our common stock may, therefore, decline for reasons unrelated to our performance Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “DCAI.” The market price of our common stock has exhibited volatility. For fiscal 2009, our per share price range was $4.15 to $7.98. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our common stock include: ● changes in government regulation, whether legislative, enforcement or reimbursement rates ● third party reports relating to the dialysis industry and our company (unsolicited by management) ● announcements by management relating to the company’s performance or other material events ● actions and announcements by our competitors ● the outlook for the healthcare industry, and the economic and market conditions generally 29 Investors should understand that in general, stock prices may fluctuate for reasons unrelated to operating results. Any changes in the above discussed factors, or general economic, political, global and market conditions, could result in a decline in the market price and volume of trading in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 