Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Funded and Unfunded Backlog Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was approximately $5,871 million at July 27, 2007, $5,641 million at July 28, 2006 and $5,160 million at July 29, 2005. The funded portion of this backlog was approximately $1,724 million at July 27, 2007, $1,482 million at July 28, 2006 and $1,141 million at July 29, 2005. The determination of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature. We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for which funding has been authorized. Unfunded backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet met our established funding criteria. Our established funding criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as our management’s determination that there is little or no risk to the authorized funding being rescinded. In fiscal 2008, we expect to fill approximately 85 percent of our total funded backlog as of July 27, 2007. However, there can be no assurance that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment for the Fiscal Year Ended June 29, 2007” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Research, Development and Engineering Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled approximately $924 million in fiscal 2007, $824 million in fiscal 2006 and $879 million in fiscal 2005. Company-sponsored research and product development costs, which included research and development for commercial products and independent research and development related to government products and services, were approximately $235 million in fiscal 2007, $198 million in fiscal 2006 and $146 million in fiscal 2005. A portion of our independent research and development costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored research and product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. The portion of total research, development and engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by a combination of U.S. Government and commercial customers and is included in our revenue. Company-funded research is directed to the development of 14 Table of Contents new products and to building technological capability in selected communications and electronic systems markets. U.S. Government-funded research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. All of our segments maintain their own engineering and new product development departments, with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology departments. As of June 29, 2007, we employed approximately 6,800 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of our business segments available for all other business segments. Patents and Other Intellectual Property We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. As of June 29, 2007, we held approximately 967 U.S. patents and 659 foreign patents, and had approximately 554 U.S. patent applications pending and 1,012 foreign patent applications pending. However, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. With regard to patents relating to our Government Communications Systems segment, the U.S. Government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset. Environmental and Other Regulations Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions. The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. We believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Based upon currently available information, we do not expect expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations over the next several years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. We have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. We did not spend material amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. We currently expect that amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be material in fiscal 2008. These amounts may increase in future years. Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes. Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by our Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”). Such requirements are not applicable to most equipment produced by our Government Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. Radio communications are also subject to governmental regulation. Equipment produced by our Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to 15 Table of Contents our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products. Reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Raw Materials and Supplies Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. While we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. In fiscal 2007, our Broadcast Communications segment experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of the new RoHS environmental regulations in the European Union, which became effective on July 1, 2006. These regulations caused a spike in demand for lead-free electronic components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. Seasonality No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of U.S. Government contract awards, the availability of funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance. Employees As of June 29, 2007, we employed approximately 16,000 people, compared with approximately 13,900 employees at the end of fiscal 2006. Approximately 89 percent of our employees are located in the United States. A significant number of employees in our Government Communications Systems segment possess a security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information General. We maintain an Internet website at http://www.harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Corporate Governance Principles and Committee Charters. We previously adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919. Certifications. We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange in November 2006 in accordance with 16 Table of Contents the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. We participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. We depend on the U.S. Government for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S. Government funding could have adverse consequences on our future business. We are highly dependent on sales to the U.S. Government. Approximately 66 percent of our net revenue in each of fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was derived from sales to the U.S. Government. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government would significantly reduce our revenue. Our U.S. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the future. The U.S. Government may choose to use other contractors for its limited number of programs. In addition, the funding of programs also competes with non-procurement spending of the U.S. Government. Budget decisions made by the U.S. Government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. A shift in U.S. Government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, an increase in non-procurement spending or a reduction in U.S. Government spending generally, could have material adverse consequences for our business. We depend significantly on our U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. In addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our 17 Table of Contents performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future U.S. Government contracts. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns. We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, approximately 33 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of our total Government Communications Systems and RF Communications segments’ revenue was from fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with other contractors and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have an adverse impact on our financial results. Furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our earnings, results of operations and financial results would be magnified by a shift in the mix of our contracts and programs toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, revenue from products exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad was 23 percent, 21 percent and 19 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately 36 percent of our international business in fiscal 2007 was transacted in local currency environments. Losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: • Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; • The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; • Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; • The complexity and necessity of using foreign dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; • The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; • Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; • Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and • Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation. While these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. 18 Table of Contents Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products that achieve market acceptance. Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • Identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; • Develop and maintain competitive products; • Enhance our products by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and • Manufacture and bring cost-effective products to market quickly. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, which will require the investment of significant financial resources in new product development. The need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products. Due to the design complexity of some of our products, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products in the future. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of our products to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or that our competitors will not develop new products that cause our existing products to become obsolete. If we fail in our new product development efforts or our products fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than those of our competitors, our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, the subsequent U.S.-led military response, current conflicts in the Middle East and the potential for future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business and the prices of our securities. These matters have caused uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages to be unavailable altogether. While our government businesses have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the war on terror, these developments may affect adversely our business and profitability and the prices of our securities in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; • Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; • Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; • Potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and • Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. The inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or products, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. In addition, there are certain parts or components which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. Some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. Any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers. We can give no assurances that we will be free from material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. Also, our subcontractors 19 Table of Contents and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We are subject to customer credit risk. We sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. We also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. While we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. There can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. If customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. Our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. These risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. New technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. 20 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in share-based compensation expense; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. Our consolidated financial results may be impacted by Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results, which may vary significantly and be difficult to forecast. We consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results in our results of operations. Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results may vary significantly in the future and may be affected by a number of factors (many of which are outside of our and Harris Stratex Networks’ control), and accordingly are expected to be difficult to forecast. Delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause quarterly revenues and quarterly net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, Harris Stratex Networks may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that Harris Stratex Networks will be able to achieve profitability in the future or, if profitability is attained, that Harris Stratex Networks will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Because we consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results in our results of operations, fluctuations in and difficulty in forecasting Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results will result in fluctuations in and likely greater difficulty in forecasting our consolidated results of operations. As a result, such fluctuations and forecasting difficulty may impact our consolidated financial results. We have significant operations in Florida that could be impacted in the event of a hurricane and operations in California that could be impacted in the event of an earthquake. Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our Government Communications Systems segment are located in Florida. In addition, our Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments have locations near major earthquake fault lines in California. In the event of a major hurricane, earthquake or other natural disaster we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our business. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for approximately 35 percent of our recorded total assets. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. Our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent 21 Table of Contents years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 