Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. Seasonality We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. Employees We employed approximately 15,200 at the end of fiscal 2012 compared with approximately 15,000 employees at the end of fiscal 2011. Approximately 90 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2012 were located in the United States. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information General. We maintain an Internet website at http://harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. Corporate Governance Principles and Committee Charters. We previously adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://harris.com/corporate_governance/. In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919. Certifications. We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive 15 Table of Contents Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in October 2011 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. We are highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government customers. The percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 70 percent in fiscal 2012, 78 percent in fiscal 2011 and 82 percent in fiscal 2010. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government would significantly reduce our revenue. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other contractors. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GWAC, General Services Administration Schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. Further, the competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, as well as the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. Following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. Our U.S. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors and with other policy imperatives for consideration for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding during the budget and appropriation process. Budget and appropriations decisions made by the U.S. Government are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. U.S. Government spending priorities and DoD spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors, including whether sequestration (automatic, across-the-board U.S. Government budgetary spending cuts) currently required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 will take effect in January 2013 and the actual impact on the DoD budget and other programs if sequestration does take effect or is superseded by alternate arrangements. A shift in U.S. Government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for example, through “in-sourcing”), or a reduction in total U.S. Government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract 16 Table of Contents revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future U.S. Government contracts. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. The United States also may experience a significant increase in inflation. A significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The potential impact of such risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers. We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. As a communications and IT company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These types of information and IT networks and 17 Table of Contents related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and IT networks and related systems could: Ÿ Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; Ÿ Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; Ÿ Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; Ÿ Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; Ÿ Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and Ÿ Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. Government) and the public generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, revenue from products and services exported from the U.S. or manufactured or rendered abroad was 24 percent, 19 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately 28 percent of our international business in fiscal 2012 was transacted in local currency. Losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed countries. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: Ÿ Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; Ÿ The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”); Ÿ Changes in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; Ÿ Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; Ÿ The complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; Ÿ The difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and practices; Ÿ Difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; Ÿ Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; Ÿ Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and Ÿ Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation. 18 Table of Contents Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners. We have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as the FCPA), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. We cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. If not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. We must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the United States. For example, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the United States could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The continued effects of the general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt and potential sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. There has been a general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the economies of the United States, and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness. We are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. The continued effects of the general downturn and weakness in the global economy and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operations results or financial condition in a number of ways. Possible effects of these economic conditions include the following: Ÿ The U.S. Government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we participate; Ÿ The U.S. Government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30 and thus would be required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a “continuing resolution” that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. While this historically has not had a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition, if the U.S. Government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenues, profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition; Ÿ Sequestration currently required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 may take effect in January 2013 or may be superseded by alternate arrangements, the actual impact of which on the DoD budget and other programs is uncertain and difficult to predict; Ÿ We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including U.S. Federal, state and local governments); Ÿ We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors; and Ÿ We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: Ÿ Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; 19 Table of Contents Ÿ Develop and maintain competitive products and services; Ÿ Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and Ÿ Develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products, services and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products, services or technologies. Due to the design complexity of some of our products, services and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products, services or technologies in the future. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of our products, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, services or technologies that cause our existing products, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The future direction of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. We participate in U.S. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. In particular, U.S. Government spending priorities and DoD spending levels are becoming increasingly uncertain and difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors, including whether sequestration currently required under the Budget Control Act of 2011 will take effect in January 2013 and the actual impact on the DoD budget and other programs if sequestration does take effect or is superseded by alternate arrangements. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and Asia and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. These matters cause uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: Ÿ Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; Ÿ Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; Ÿ Difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; Ÿ Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; Ÿ Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; 20 Table of Contents Ÿ Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; Ÿ Potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; Ÿ Risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and Ÿ Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. In addition, there are certain parts, components and services for many of our products and services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. Some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that we require. Our supply chain could also be disrupted by external events, such as natural disasters or other significant disruptions (including extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks and labor disputes), governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (including product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity and climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards). Any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services to our customers. We can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in the future. Also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, services and solutions. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications 21 Table of Contents systems and products. New technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: Ÿ The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; Ÿ Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; Ÿ Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions; Ÿ Changes in available tax credits; Ÿ Changes in share-based compensation expense; Ÿ Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; Ÿ Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and Ÿ The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our Government Communications Systems segment are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to lighter regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and other Federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common carrier basis. Our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by governments of various countries other than the United States and by other international authorities. The regulatory regimes applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations frequently require that we obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. Compliance with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in which such expansion is required in order to provide uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile operations as they move to new locations on short notice. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various penalties or sanctions. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. In certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. In such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. This inability could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounted for approximately 30 percent of our recorded total assets as of June 29, 2012. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill annually, as well as when we change reportable segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For additional information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report and Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and Note 3: Discontinued Operations in the Notes. We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. Our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 