Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. Seasonality We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance. Employees We employed approximately 15,400 employees at the end of fiscal 2009 compared with approximately 14,700 employees at the end of fiscal 2008. Approximately 92 percent of our employees as of the end of fiscal 2009 were located in the United States. A significant number of employees in our Government Communications Systems segment possess a security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 15 Table of Contents Website Access to Harris Reports; Available Information General. We maintain an Internet website at http://www.harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Additional information relating to our businesses, including our operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. Corporate Governance Principles and Committee Charters. We previously adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919. Certifications. We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in November 2008 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have described many of the trends and other factors that could impact our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results. We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse consequences on our future business. We are highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government customers. The percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 79 percent in fiscal 2009, 79 percent in fiscal 2008 and 75 percent in fiscal 2007. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government would significantly reduce our revenue. Our U.S. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other government contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of funding. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other contractors. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GWAC, GSA Schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain task orders under multi-award contracts. Further, the competitive bidding process involves substantial costs, the significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. Following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. We also compete with the U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. Budget decisions made by the U.S. Government are 16 Table of Contents outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. A shift in U.S. Government spending priorities or an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs, or a reduction in total U.S. Government spending, could have material adverse consequences on our future business. We depend significantly on our U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business. Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of three years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business. Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future U.S. Government contracts. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation. We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. In fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, approximately 36 percent and 35 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of our RF Communications and Government Communications Systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. The United States also may experience a significant increase in inflation. A significant increase in inflation rates could have a significant 17 Table of Contents adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts. Cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price contracts. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, revenue from products exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad was 20 percent, 17 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately 25 percent of our international business in fiscal 2009 was transacted in local currency environments. Losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in less-developed countries. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: • Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations; • The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; • Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees; • The complexity and necessity of using international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants; • The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many countries; • Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations; • Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract clauses; and • Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments. We must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the United States. For example, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the United States could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets. Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets; • Develop and maintain competitive products; • Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and • Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to market quickly. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to develop new products and technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial resources. The need to make these expenditures 18 Table of Contents could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely development of new products or technologies. Due to the design complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of our products or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products or technologies that cause our existing products or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The future direction of the domestic and global economies also will have a significant impact on our overall performance. We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures. We participate in U.S. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits. We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability. Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. These matters cause uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets and may increase significantly the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable altogether. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; • Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; • Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; • Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; • Potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and • Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components or parts, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. In addition, there are certain parts or components for many of our products which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. Some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require. Any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers. We can give no assurances that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in the future. Also, our 19 Table of Contents subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to customer credit risk. We sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer financing. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as well as working capital. We also may assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse or non-recourse basis. While we generally have been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third-party lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a portion of these financings is provided directly by us. There can be higher risks associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start-up operations such as local network providers, to customers in developing countries or to customers in specific financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. If customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. Our losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to place or insure against these risks with third parties. These risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. New technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. 20 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in share-based compensation expense; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. The effects of the recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. The United States economy is in recession and there has been a general downturn in the global economy. Although governments worldwide, including the U.S. Government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. Possible effects of these economic events include the following: • The U.S. Government could reprioritize its spending away from the government contracts in which we participate. • We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. • We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. • We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities. We have significant operations in Florida and other locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our Government Communications Systems segment are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for approximately 34 percent of our recorded total assets as of July 3, 2009. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For additional information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under “Critical Accounting Policies and 21 Table of Contents Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report and Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and Note 22: Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets in the Notes. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. Our business has a continuing need to attract significant numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 