ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and company could materially impact our future performance and results. The factors described below are the most significant risks that could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general may also impair our business and operations. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Significant CompetitionWe operate in a highly competitive industry. While some of our facilities do not compete directly with other racetracks or OTBs for live, on-track patron attendance due to geographic separation of facilities or differences in seasonal timing of meetings, other of our facilities compete with other racetracks and off-track wagering facilities, some of which offer alternative forms of gaming, such as slot machines, that provide these facilities with the advantage of additional entertainment options. For example, Hoosier Park’s market experienced an increase in competition when Indiana Downs, another racetrack, opened near Hoosier Park. Additionally, the opening of an Indiana Downs’ OTB in Clarksville, Indiana has had a negative impact on patro n attendance at Churchill Downs and its simulcast operations. In Florida, Calder Race Course currently faces competition from Native American casinos and cruise ship casinos and may face competition directly from other Miami-based racetracks in the future, including Broward County racetracks that have been authorized to operate slot machines.There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition discussed above, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track and advance deposit wagering. Declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and advance deposit wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inte r-track, off-track and advance deposit wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races as well as the ultimate customer. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and advance deposit wagering markets, has lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at our facilities and on races conducted at our racetracks and may materially, adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 A decline in the popularity of horse racing could adversely impact our business. The continued popularity of horse racing is important to our growth plans and our operating results. Our business plan anticipates attracting new customers to our racetracks, OTBs, and other wagering platforms. Even if we are successful in making acquisitions and expanding and improving our current operations, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to achieve our business plan. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in the interest in horse racing or any change in customer preference may adversely impact our revenues and, therefore, our results of operations. Declining on-track attendance and increasing competition in simulcasting may have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations.We also compete for patrons with other sports, entertainment and gaming operations, including land-based, riverboat, cruise ship and Native American casinos and state lotteries.While we currently receive revenues from wagering activity on our racing content over certain third party advance deposit wagering sites, we face competition from gaming companies that operate on-line and Internet-based gaming services. These services allow patrons to wager on a wide variety of sporting events from home. Unlike most on-line and Internet-based gaming companies, our business requires significant and ongoing capital expenditures for both its continued operation and expansion. We also could face significantly greater costs in operating our business compared to these gaming companies. We cannot offer the same number of gaming options as o n-line and Internet-based gaming companies. In addition, many on-line and Internet gaming companies are based off-shore and avoid regulation under U.S. state and federal laws. These companies may divert wagering dollars from legitimate wagering venues such as our racetracks. Competition in the gaming industry is likely to increase due to limited opportunities for growth in new markets. Our inability to compete successfully with these competitors could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Face Extensive Regulation from Various AuthoritiesThe operation of pari-mutuel wagering and gaming facilities is subject to extensive state and local regulation. We depend on continued state approval of legalized g aming in states where we operate. Our wagering and racing facilities must meet the licensing requirements of various regulatory authorities, including the KHRA, the IHRC, the Florida DPW, the LSRC, the Louisiana Board and the IRB. In Louisiana, our gaming operations must meet the licensing requirements of the Louisiana Gaming Control Board. As part of this regulatory framework, licenses to conduct live horse racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are granted annually, and gaming licenses in Louisiana are granted every five years. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our racetracks and gaming facilities. However, we may be unable to maintain our existing licenses. In Louisiana, gaming licenses are contingent upon maintaining the racing license, and we must conduct 80 live race days within a 20 week period in order to maintain the racing license. In Indiana, we must conduct 120 live race days in order to conduct simulcasting. The loss of or material change in our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct and could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. The high degree of regulation in the gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy. Our expansion into advance deposit wagering operations will likely require us to obtain additional governmental approvals or, in some cases, amendments to current laws governing such activities.Changes in Legislation and Regulation of Our Operations Could Affect Our BusinessOur gaming operations exist at the discretion of the states where we conduct business. Certain aspects of our gaming operations are also subject to federal statutes or regulations. All of our pari-mutuel wagering operations are contingent upon continued governmental approval of those operations as forms of legalized gaming. Legislation to limit or prohibit gaming (pari-mutuel or non-pari-mutuel) may be introduced in the future. Any restriction on or prohibition of gaming operations could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, any expansion of our gaming operations into alternative gaming, such as slot machines, video lottery terminals and other forms of non-pari-mutuel gaming, will likely require various additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly, and there is no assurance of success. We have and continue to seek legal authority to offer alternative gaming at our racetracks where alternative gaming is not currently permitted.The Indiana horse racing industry currently receives a subsidy from riverboat casinos. On April 1, 2006, “Integrity ‘06,” a program designed to improve the integrity of horse racing in Indiana, became effective. The estimated cost of complying with the rules and regulations created by “Integrity ‘06” is financed by the two existing racetrack operators in Indiana using the subsidy paid by riverboat casinos, which is estimated to be 2% of the total subsidy. 16 As a result, the subsidy is distributed as follows: 39.2% for purse expenses, 19.6% for breed development and 41.2% for the two existing racetrack operators, which is divided equally. Any change in this arrangement could adversely impact our results of operations in Indiana.In Illinois, the IRB has the authority to designate racetracks as “host track” for the purpose of receiving host track revenues generated during periods when no racetrack is conducting live races. Racetracks that are designated as “host track” obtain and distribute out of state simulcast signals for the State of Illinois. Under Illinois law, the “host track” is entitled to a larger portion of commissions on the related pari-mutuel wagering. Failure to designate Arlington Park as 47;host track” during this period could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, Arlington Park is statutorily entitled to recapture as revenues monies that are otherwise payable to Arlington Park’s purse account. The right to recapture these revenues is subject to change every legislative session.These statutory or regulatory established revenue sources are subject to change every legislative session. The reduction or elimination of any one of them could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, certain revenue sources are dedicated by legislation or regulation and may be subject to change.The passage of legislation permitting alternative gaming at racetracks can be a long and uncertain process . As a result, there can be no assurance that (1) jurisdictions in which we own or operate racetracks will pass legislation permitting alternative gaming, (2) if jurisdictions pass such legislation, it will be permitted at our racetracks, and (3) if alternative gaming is permitted at our racetracks, it will be on economically viable terms. If alternative gaming legislation is enacted in any jurisdiction where we own or operate a racetrack and we proceed to conduct alternative gaming, there may be significant costs and other resources to be expended, and there will be significant risks involved, including the risk of changes in the enabling legislation, that may have a material, adverse impact on that racetrack’s results of operations. In 2003, the country of Antigua filed a formal complaint against the United States with the WTO, challenging the United States’ ability to enforce the Acts against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from United States residents. At issue was whether the United States’ enforcement of the Acts against foreign companies violated GATS. In November of 2004, a WTO panel ruled that the United States, as a signatory of GATS, could not enforce the Acts against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from United States residents. The United States appealed the ruling and, in April of 2005, the WTO’s appellate body ruled that the United States had demonstrated that the Acts were measures necessary to protect public morals or maintain public order, but that the United States did not enforce the Acts consistently between domestic companies and foreign companies as required by GATS. The WTO’s appellate body specifically referenced the IHA, which appeared to authorize domestic companies to accept Internet wagers on horse racing, as being inconsistent with the United States’ stated policy against Internet wagering. In arguments and briefs before the WTO’s appellate body, the United States argued that the Acts, specifically the Wire Act, applies equally to domestic companies and foreign companies and the IHA does not create an exception for domestic companies to accept Internet wagering on horse racing. The WTO’s appellate body did not rule on whether an exception for domestic U.S. companies was created under the IHA, but recommended that the WTO’s Dispute Settlement Body request the United States to bring measures found to be inconsistent with GATS into conformity with its obligations under GATS. The United States was given until April 3, 2006 to bring its policies in line with the ruling, assuming it believed any changes were necessary. On April 10, 2006, the United States delegation to the WTO submitted the U.S. Report stating that no changes are necessary to bring U.S. policies in line with the ruling. In support of its position, the United States delegation informed the Dispute Settlement Body that on April 5, 2006, the United States Department of Justice confirmed the United States Government position regarding remote wagering on horse racing in testimony before a subcommittee of the United States House of Representatives. According to the U.S. Report, in that testimony, the Department of Justice stated its view that regardless of the IHA, existing criminal statutes prohibit the interstate transmission of bets or wagers, including wagers on horse racing, and informed the subcommittee that it is currently undertaking a civil investigation relating to a potential violation of law regarding this activity. On January 25, 2007, the WTO compliance panel issued its interim finding in response to the U.S. Report and found that the United States has failed to comply with previous WTO rulings regarding restrictions on access to the U.S. Internet gaming market. As a matter of process, the U.S. and Antigua have the opportunity to seek changes to the interim report. No major changes are expected. We anticipate the panel will circulate its final 17 report by the end of March, at which point the U.S. is expected to appeal. The appeals process is expected to take approximately five months. Assuming the U.S. appeal fails, Antigua is expected to file its retaliation request, and the U.S. will seek to arbitrate both the amount and the type of retaliation proposed. Antigua has not indicated what actions, if any, it will take in response to the U.S. Report and the United States’ position relative to interstate wagering on horse racing. The effect of the WTO ruling on the ability of domestic companies to accept Internet wagers and other account wagers on horse racing remains unclear. While the WTO decision does not affect any existing federal or state law, we cannot predict what actions, if any, the U.S. government will take in response to the request of the WTO in light of the appellate body report of the WTO and in light of the U.S. Report and what impact, if any, the appellate body report and the U.S. Report will have on our business and operations. One of the options available to Congress and the White House is to prohibit or restrict substantially the conduct of interstate simulcast wagering or advance deposit wagering. If the U.S. government elects to take such an approach (including through any action by the Department of Justice), it will have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Face Government and Other Opposition Regarding Our Pari-Mutuel Wagering OperationsWe have recently decided to launch Twinspires.com, an advance deposit wagering platform that will accept advance deposit wagers, including telephone, interactive television, and Internet-based wagering, from customers who establish accounts with us. Advance deposit wagering in the United States may currently be conducted only through hubs or bases located in certain governmental states. Our expansion opportunities with respect to advance deposit wagering will be limited unless more states amend their laws or regulations to permit advance deposit wagering or, in the alternative, if states take affirmative action to make advance deposit wagering expressly unlawful. In addition, the regulatory and legislative proc esses can be lengthy, costly, and uncertain, so we may not be successful in obtaining required legislation, licenses, registrations, permits, and approvals.We may accept advance deposit wagers from residents of states where the law does not expressly address advance deposit wagering. State laws governing advance deposit wagering vary from state to state. Some states have expressly authorized advance deposit wagering by their own residents, some states have expressly prohibited pari-mutuel wagering and/or advance deposit wagering; and other states have expressly authorized pari-mutuel wagering but have neither expressly authorized nor expressly prohibited their residents from placing wagers through advance deposit wagering hubs located in different states. We believe that an advance deposit wagering operation may open accounts on behalf of and accept wagering instructions from residents of states where pari-mutuel wagering is legal and where providing wagering instructions to advance deposit wagering operations in other states is not expressly prohibited by statute, regulations, or other governmental restrictions. However, state attorneys general, gaming regulators, and other law enforcement officials may interpret state gaming laws, federal statutes, constitutional principles, and doctrines, and the related regulations in a narrower manner than we do. In the past, certain state attorneys general and other law enforcement officials have expressed concern over the legality of interstate advance deposit wagering. In December of 2000, legislation was enacted in the United States that amends the IHA. We believe that this amendment clarifies that inter-track wagering simulcasting, off-track betting and advance deposit wagering, as currently conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry are authorized under U.S. federal law. The amendment may not be interpreted in this manner by all concerned, however, and there may be challenges to these activities by both state and federal law enforcement authorities, which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects, including the licenses we hold to conduct horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering in the United States.From time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation that would either inhibit or restrict Internet gambling in general or inhibit or restrict the use of certain financial instruments, including credit cards, to provide funds for advance deposit wagering.On October 13, 2006, President Bush signed into law “The Internet Gambling Prohibition and Enforcement Act of 2006.” This act prohibits those involved in the business of wagering from accepting any financi al instrument, electronic or otherwise, for deposit that is intended to be utilized for unlawful internet gaming. The act declares that nothing in that act may be constructed to prohibit any activity allowed under the IHA. This act also contains a “Sense of Congress” that explicitly states that it is not intended to criminalize any activity currently permitted by federal law. The Department of Treasury and Federal Reserve System are currently drafting regulations to implement the bill. Although the bill sets out exemption for pari-mutuel wagers on horse racing, there is some concern that credit card issuers and financial institutions may decline to transact business with us because of perceived uncertainty. If the regulations are overly restrictive or if credit card companies, as a matter of policy, refuse to process advance deposit wagering transactions due to perceived legal uncertainty surrounding on-line, live 18 event wagering, our business and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Credit card companies may in the future become hesitant to process deposits, fees and on-line transactions by our customers. This would limit the methods of payment available to our subscribers, reducing the convenience of our services and may make competitive services more attractive. This may materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Furthermore, many states have considered and are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations, which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, an d enforcement policies that could have a material, adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to the success of our advance deposit wagering operation.We May Experience Resistance to Certain of Our Business Strategies.We have entered into a reciprocal content swap agreement with MEC to exchange our respective horse racing signals with each other. MEC and the Company have also formed a venture which will serve as agent to MEC and the Company to sell our content to third parties, including racetracks, OTB’s, casinos and other advance deposit wagering oper ators. The venture will also act as agent to MEC and the Company to purchase horse racing content from third parties to make available through our respective outlets including our advance deposit wagering platform. Other industry participants may may not agree to sell and decline to purchase our content from the venture and/or to sell their content to us through the venture. This resistance may reduce the distribution of our content and/or our ability to purchase content for our outlets, including our advance deposit wagering platform, potentially having a material, adverse effect on our results of operations.We have also purchased a fifty percent interest in a venture that will own and operate MEC’s currently owned horse racing television channel, HRTV. HRTV will serve as our primary distribution channel to homes that use certain cable or satellite services for advance deposit wageri ng. This investment may generate operating losses. In addition, HRTV may be unable to negotiate new distribution agreements with cable companies and/or satellite companies, resulting in a reduction in distribution for advance deposit wagering purposes. In addition, our customers may not subscribe to the services needed to access our content or may be confused about where to view our content. Any of these risks may have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations.We May Not be Able to Attract Quality Horses and TrainersTo provide high quality horse racing, we must attract the country’s top horses and trainers. Our success in attracting the top horses and trainers largely depends on the overall horse population available for racing and our ability to offer and fund competitive purses. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases such as the neurologic form of Equine Herpes Virus — I and Strangles, which is caused by the organism streptococcus equine. If any of our racetracks is faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, or if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our racetracks by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, well-maintained racetracks, better conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our racetracks, and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could decrease. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to ope rate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenues for race purses and capital improvements.Any decline in the number of suitable race horses could prevent us from attracting top horses and trainers and may require us to reduce the number of live races we present. A reduction in suitable race horses could force us to increase the size of our purses or other benefits we offer, to conduct fewer races or to accept horses of a lower quality. 19 We Experience Significant Seasonal Fluctuations in Operating ResultsWe experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results due to seasonality and other factors. We have a limited number of live racing days at our racetracks, and the number of live racing days varies from year to year. The number of live racing days we can offer directly affects our results of operations. A significant decrease in the number of live racing days and/or live races could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Our live racing schedule dictates that we earn a substantial portion of our net earnings in the second quarter of each year when the Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks races are run during the first weekend in May. Business interrupti on, such as weather conditions, could affect our ability to conduct our most popular races. Any adverse impact on our races, including the Kentucky Derby, the Kentucky Oaks and key races at our other racetracks could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Our Business Depends on Providers of Totalisator ServicesIn purchasing and selling our pari-mutuel wagering products, our customers depend on information provided by United Tote Company, Scientific Games Racing and AmTote International, Inc. These totalisator companies provide the computer systems that accumulate wagers, record sales, calculate payoffs and display wagering data in a secure manner. These are the only three major vendors that provide this service in North America. The loss of any one of these vendors as a provider of this critical service would decrease competition and could result in an increase in the cost to obtain these services. Because of the highly specialized nature of these services, replicating these totalisator services would be expensive.In addition, we rely upon the totalisator companies’ computer systems to ensure the integrity of our wagering process. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. The failure of totalisator companies to keep their technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively or develop new forms of wagering and/or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product.We May be Held Responsible for Contamination, Even if We Did Not Cause the ContaminationOur business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. In addition, environmental laws and regulations could hold us responsible for the cost of cleaning up hazardous materials contaminating real property that we own or operate or properties at which we have disposed of hazardous materials, even if we did not cause the contamination. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the applicable environmental laws and have no material cleanup obligations. However, if we fail to comply with environmental laws or if contamination is discovered, a court or government agency could impose severe penalties or restri ctions on our operations or assess us with the costs of taking remedial actions.Inclement Weather and Other Conditions May Affect Our Ability To Conduct Live RacingSince horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause races to be cancelled and/or wagering to suffer. If a business interruption were to occur and continue for a significant length of time, at any of our racetracks, it could materially, and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. During 2005, we sustained disruption to our operatio ns at Calder Race Course in Florida, Fair Grounds Race Course and our OTB locations in Louisiana due to the damage caused by hurricanes. Any flood or other severe weather condition that could lead to the loss of use of our other facilities for an extended period could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations.We May Not be Able to Complete Acquisition or Expansion Projects on Time, on Budget or As PlannedWe expect to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for development, including acquisition of other properties and ways to expand our business operations, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition c andidates and/or development partners. 20 We could face challenges in identifying development projects that fit our strategic objectives, identifying potential acquisition candidates and/or development partners, negotiating projects on acceptable terms, and managing and integrating the acquisition or development projects. The integration of new operations and any other properties we may acquire or develop will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating new properties or projects may also interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that any new properties or developments will be completed or integrated successfully.Mana gement of new properties or business operations, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. We cannot assure that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or developments.We Depend on Agreements with Our HorsemenThe IHA, as well as various state racing laws, require that we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks in order to simulcast races, and, in some cases, conduct live racing. We also have written agreements with horse owners with regards to the proceeds of gaming machines in Louisiana. These agreements provide that we must receive the consent of the horsemen’s groups at the racetrack conducting live races before we may allow third parties to accept wagers on those races. In addition, the agreements between other racetracks and their horsemen’s groups typically provide that those racetracks must receive consent from the horsemen’s groups before we can accept wagers on their races. The failure to maintain agreements with our horsemen and industry associations on satisfactory terms or the refusal by a horsemen’s group to consent to third parties accepting wagers on our races or our accepting wagers on third parties’ races could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations.We Depend on Key PersonnelWe are highly dependant on the services of Robert L. Evans, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our executive management team. Our inabil ity to retain key personnel could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations.We May Not be Able to Adequately Insure Our PropertiesThe significant damage and resulting insurance claims caused by (i) Hurricane Katrina to the New Orleans, Louisiana area and our Fair Grounds facility and OTBs; and (ii) Hurricane Wilma to South Florida and our Calder Race Course facility; has increased the costs of obtaining property coverage for our facilities and significantly impacted our ability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at our facilities. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at reasonable prices could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations.Other RisksMany other risks beyond our control could seriously disrupt our operations, including:· The effect of global economic conditions;· The effect (including possible increases in the cost of doing business) resulting from future war and terrorist activities or political uncertainties;· The economic environment;· The impact of interest rate fluctuations;· The financial performance of our racing operations;· Costs associated with our efforts in support of alternative gaming initiatives; and· ; Costs associated with Customer Relationship Management initiatives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 ITEM 