Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities Item 6. Consolidated Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule Signatures Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Exhibit Index 3 Return to Index PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS A. Introduction Churchill Downs Incorporated (the "Company") is principally a racing company that conducts pari-mutuel wagering on live Thoroughbred, Quarter Horse and Standardbred horse racing and simulcasts signals of races. Additionally, we offer racing services through our other business interests as well as alternative gaming through video poker operations in Louisiana. We were organized as a Kentucky corporation in 1928. Our principal executive offices are located at 700 Central Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky, 40208. We operate our flagship operation, Churchill Downs racetrack ("Churchill Downs"), in Louisville, Kentucky. Churchill Downs has conducted Thoroughbred racing continuously since 1875 and is internationally known as the home of the Kentucky Derby. The Churchill Downs operation also encompasses an on-site simulcast facility. In addition, the management of Churchill Downs oversees Ellis Park Race Course, Inc. ("Ellis Park"), which operates a Thoroughbred track in Henderson, Kentucky. Churchill Downs Management Company ("CDMC") manages all of our operations including: Churchill Downs; Ellis Park; Arlington Park, a Thoroughbred racing operation in Arlington Heights along with eight off-track betting facilities ("OTBs") in Illinois; Calder Race Course ("Calder"), a Thoroughbred racing operation in Miami Gardens, Florida; Fair Grounds Race Course ("Fair Grounds"), a Thoroughbred racing operation in New Orleans along with eleven OTBs in Louisiana; and Video Services, Inc. ("VSI"), the owner and operator of more than 700 video poker machines in Louisiana. Fair Grounds and VSI were acquired in October 2004. On September 23, 2005, Churchill Downs California Company ("CDCC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the sale of Hollywood Park, a Thoroughbred racing operation in Inglewood, California. Additionally, CDMC manages Hoosier Park at Anderson in Anderson, Indiana ("Hoosier Park"). Hoosier Park conducts Thoroughbred, Quarter Horse and Standardbred horse racing, and operates three OTBs in Indiana. Hoosier Park is owned by Hoosier Park, L.P. ("HPLP"), an Indiana limited partnership. Anderson Park, Inc. ("Anderson"), a wholly owned subsidiary of CDMC, is the sole general partner of HPLP. Anderson owns a 62% interest in HPLP and continues to manage its day-to-day operations. Centaur Racing, LLC owns 38% of HPLP and, through a Partnership Interest Purchase Agreement, has an option to purchase an additional 11% partnership interest from us, which expires on December 31, 2007. We formed Churchill Downs Investment Company ("CDIC"), a wholly owned subsidiary, to oversee other industry related investments. CDIC holds a 30% interest in NASRIN Services, LLC ("NASRIN"), a telecommunications service provider for the pari-mutuel and simulcasting industries. During 2004, the Company sold a 19% interest in Kentucky Downs, LLC ("Kentucky Downs"), a Franklin, Kentucky, racetrack that conducts a limited Thoroughbred race meet in September, as well as year-round simulcasting. After consummation of the sale, the Company retained a 5% interest in Kentucky Downs. Our investments in NASRIN and Kentucky Downs are not material to the Company's financial position or results of operations. The Company directly or indirectly holds a 100% interest in Churchill Downs Simulcast Productions ("CDSP"), which provides television production and integration of computer graphic software to the racing industry. The simulcast signal produced by CDSP displays odds, statistical data and other racing information on television in real-time for patrons at racetracks and OTBs. Our ownership in CDSP is not material to the Company's financial position or results of operation. B. Live Racing and Alternative Gaming Operations We conduct live horse racing at Churchill Downs, Calder, Fair Grounds, Arlington Park, Hoosier Park and Ellis Park. The following is a summary of our significant live racing events and a description of our properties. 4 Return to Index The Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks, both held at Churchill Downs, continue to be our premier racing events. The 2006 Kentucky Derby will offer a minimum $2.0 million in purse money, and the Kentucky Oaks offers a minimum $0.5 million in purse money. The Kentucky Derby is the first race of the annual series of races for 3-year-old Thoroughbreds known as the Triple Crown. In addition, Churchill Downs offers a $0.8 million purse for the Stephen Foster Handicap. Calder is home to The Festival of the Sun and the nationally prominent Summit of Speed, offering approximately $1.9 million in total purse money. Hollywood Park was home to the Hollywood Gold Cup during 2005, which offered $0.8 million in purse money. The Arlington Million, which is run during the International Festival of Racing at Arlington Park, with a purse of $1.0 million, is one of three North American stops for the World Series Racing Championship. Fair Ground's Winter Meet during 2005 was highlighted by Louisiana Derby Day, the richest day in Louisiana racing, that was headlined by the $0.6 million Louisiana Derby, a major prep race for the Kentucky Derby. Other significant racing events are the Indiana Derby for Thoroughbreds and the Dan Patch Invitational and Hoosier Cup for Standardbreds held at Hoosier Park, as well as the Gardenia Stakes for older fillies and mares held at Ellis Park. Arlington Park hosted the Breeders' Cup World Thoroughbred Championship ("Breeders' Cup") in 2002. Churchill Downs has hosted the Breeders' Cup on five occasions and has also been selected as the site to host the event in 2006. Breeders' Cup Limited, a tax-exempt organization chartered to promote Thoroughbred racing and breeding, sponsors Breeders' Cup races, which currently feature $14.0 million in purses. These races are held annually for the purpose of determining Thoroughbred champions in eight different events. Racetracks across North America compete for the privilege of hosting the prestigious Breeders' Cup races each year. Churchill Downs The Churchill Downs racetrack site and improvements ("Churchill facility") are located in Louisville, Kentucky. The Churchill facility consists of approximately 147 acres of land with a one-mile dirt track, a seven-eighths (7/8) mile turf track, permanent grandstands, luxury suites and a stabling area. Our facility accommodates approximately 52,000 persons in our clubhouse, grandstand, Jockey Club Suites and Finish Line Suites. The facility also includes a state-of-the-art simulcast wagering facility designed to accommodate 1,500 persons, a general admission area, and food and beverage facilities ranging from fast food to full-service restaurants. The site also has a saddling paddock, accommodations for groups and special events, parking areas for the public, and our racetrack and corporate office facilities. The stable area has barns sufficient to accommodate approximately 1,400 horses, a 114-room dormitory and other facilities for backstretch personnel. To supplement the facilities at Churchill Downs, we provide additional stabling facilities sufficient to accommodate 500 horses and a three-quarter (3/4) mile dirt track, which is used for training Thoroughbreds, at the OTB known as Trackside Louisville. The facilities provide a year-round base of operation for many horsemen and enable us to attract new horsemen to race at Churchill Downs. We have made numerous capital improvements to the Churchill facility in order to better serve our horsemen and patrons. During the first quarter of 2002 we began a $121.8 million renovation to restore and modernize key areas at the Churchill facility, referred to as our "Master Plan." The $26.3 million Phase I, which was substantially completed during 2003, included renovation of the historic Jockey Club and construction of 61 new luxury suites, a ballroom, new meeting rooms and kitchen facilities. The $95.5 million Phase II of the Master Plan was completed during the second quarter of 2005 and included the demolition and rebuilding of a large section of the clubhouse area and the addition of 15 new luxury suites. As part of the financing for the Master Plan, in 2002 we transferred title to the Churchill facility to the City of Louisville, Kentucky and leased back the facility. Subject to the terms of the lease agreement, we can re-acquire the facility at any time for $1.00. This transaction has no significant impact on our current financial position or results of operations. 5 Return to Index Calder Race Course The Calder racetrack and improvements are located in Miami-Dade County. The Calder facility is adjacent to Dolphin Stadium, home of the Florida Marlins and Miami Dolphins, and consists of approximately 220 acres of land with a one-mile dirt track, a seven-eighths (7/8) mile turf track, a training area with a five-eighths (5/8) mile training track, permanent grandstands and a stabling area. The facility includes clubhouse and grandstand seating for approximately 15,000 persons, a general admission area, and food and beverage facilities ranging from concessions to full-service restaurants. The stable area consists of a receiving barn, feed rooms, tack rooms, detention barns and living quarters and can accommodate approximately 1,800 horses. The Calder Race Course facility also features a saddling paddock, parking areas for the public and office facilities. On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma caused significant damage to Calder's clubhouse facility and parts of its stable area. We carry property and casualty insurance and are currently working with our insurance carriers to determine to what extent insurance proceeds will offset any losses. Full restoration of the facility is currently under way and is expected to be completed prior to the beginning of the race meeting in 2006. Fair Grounds Race Course and VSI On October 14, 2004, we completed our acquisition of the Fair Grounds racetrack and its affiliated operations, including eleven OTBs. The Fair Grounds racetrack facility, located in New Orleans, Louisiana, consists of approximately 145 acres of land, a one mile dirt track, a seven-eighths (7/8) mile turf track, permanent grandstands and a stabling area. The facility includes clubhouse and grandstand seating for approximately 5,000 persons, a general admissions area, and food and beverage facilities ranging from concessions to clubhouse dining. The stable area consists of a receiving barn, feed rooms, tack rooms, detention barns and living quarters and can accommodate approximately 2,000 horses. The Fair Grounds facility also features a saddling paddock, parking areas for the public and office facilities. In connection with the acquisition of Fair Grounds racetrack and its affiliated operations, we expected to make numerous capital improvements to the Fair Grounds facility in order to better serve our horsemen and patrons. Fair Grounds has received the requisite state and local approvals for the construction of a slot-machine gaming facility at the racetrack property offering up to 700 slot machines. VSI is the exclusive operator of more than 700 video poker machines at Fair Grounds and nine of its OTBs. On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused significant damage to the Fair Grounds racetrack facility and its affiliated OTBs. The Fair Grounds racetrack, its on-site OTB and three other OTBs remain closed as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We carry property and casualty insurance and are currently working with our insurance carriers to determine to what extent proceeds will offset any losses. Restoration is underway, but the full extent of restoration to the various facilities, including Fair Grounds racetrack, is yet to be determined. Arlington Park The Arlington Park racetrack was constructed in 1927 and reopened its doors in 1989 after a devastating fire four years earlier. The racetrack sits on 325 acres, has a one and one-eighth (1 1/8) mile dirt track, a one-mile turf track and a five-eighths (5/8) mile training track. The facility includes permanent clubhouse, grandstand and suite seating for 6,045 persons, and food and beverage facilities ranging from fast food to full-service restaurants. Arlington Park has 34 barns able to accommodate approximately 2,200 horses. The Arlington Park facility also features a saddling paddock, parking areas for the public and office facilities. Ellis Park The Ellis Park racetrack and improvements, located in Henderson, Kentucky, consist of approximately 250 acres of land just north of the Ohio River with a one and one-eighths (1 1/8) mile dirt track, a one-mile turf track and a stabling area for 1,140 horses. The facility includes clubhouse and grandstand seating for 8,000 people, a general admission area, and food and beverage facilities ranging from fast food to full-service restaurants. The Ellis Park facility also features a saddling paddock, parking areas for the public and office facilities. On November 6, 2005, a tornado caused significant damage to the Ellis Park racetrack and improvements, including its stable areas as well as several other buildings. We carry property and casualty insurance and are currently working with our insurance carriers to determine to what extent insurance proceeds will offset any losses. We anticipate restoring the facility in time for racing during the summer of 2006. 6 Return to Index Hoosier Park Hoosier Park is located in Anderson, Indiana, about 40 miles northeast of downtown Indianapolis. Hoosier Park leases the land under a long-term lease from the city of Anderson and owns all of the improvements on the site. The Hoosier Park facility consists of approximately 110 acres of leased land with a seven-eighths (7/8) mile dirt track, permanent grandstands and a stabling area. The facility includes seating for approximately 2,400 persons, a general admission area, and food and beverage facilities ranging from fast food to a full-service restaurant. The site also has a saddling paddock, parking areas for the public and office facilities. The stable area has barns sufficient to accommodate 980 horses and other facilities for backstretch personnel. C. Simulcast Operations We generate a significant portion of our revenues by transmitting signals of races from our racetracks to other facilities ("export") and receiving signals from other tracks ("import"). Revenues are earned through pari-mutuel wagering on signals that we both import and export. The Churchill Downs Simulcast Network ("CDSN") was developed in 2002 to focus on the distribution of the Company's simulcast signal. CDSN provides the principal oversight of our interstate and international simulcast and wagering opportunities, as well as the marketing, sales, operations and data support efforts related to the Company-owned racing content. CDSN will present over 500 racing programs from our six racetracks to wagering outlets during 2006. Arlington Park and Calder conduct on-site simulcast wagering only during live race meets, while Churchill Downs, Fair Grounds, Hoosier Park and Ellis Park offer year-round simulcast wagering at the racetracks. The OTBs located in Indiana, Illinois and Louisiana conduct simulcast wagering year-round. Off-Track Betting Facilities Twelve of our OTBs are collectively branded "Trackside" to create a common identity for our OTB operations. Trackside Louisville, which is open for simulcast wagering only on big events days, such as the Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks and Breeders' Cup when Churchill Downs hosts the event, is located approximately five miles from the Churchill facility. This 100,000-square-foot property, on approximately 88 acres of land, is a Thoroughbred training and stabling annex that has audiovisual capabilities for pari-mutuel wagering, seating for approximately 3,000 persons, parking, offices and related facilities for simulcasting races. Arlington Park operates eight OTBs that accept wagers on races at Arlington Park as well as on races simulcast from other locations. One OTB is located on the Arlington Park property. Another is located in Rockford, Illinois consisting of approximately 8.6 acres, and a third is located in East Moline, Illinois on approximately 232.6 acres. Arlington Park also leases two OTBs located in Waukegan, Illinois consisting of approximately 25,000 square feet, and Chicago, Illinois consisting of approximately 19,700 square feet. Arlington Park operates three OTBs within existing non-owned Illinois restaurants under license agreements. These three OTBs are located in South Elgin, McHenry and South Beloit, which opened in December 2002, June 2003 and February 2004, respectively. The McHenry OTB was moved to a different non-owned restaurant in McHenry, Illinois and reopened during December 2005. Hoosier Park operates three OTBs providing a statewide distribution system for Hoosier Park's racing signal, and additional simulcast markets for our products. These OTBs are located in: Merrillville, located about 30 miles southeast of Chicago, which consists of approximately 27,300 square feet of space; Fort Wayne which consists of approximately 15,750 square feet of space; and downtown Indianapolis where Hoosier Park leases approximately 24,800 square feet of space. 7 Return to Index Fair Grounds operates 11 OTBs that accept wagers on races at Fair Grounds as well as on races simulcast from other locations. One OTB is located on the Fair Grounds property. Another is located in Kenner, Louisiana consisting of approximately 4.26 acres. Fair Grounds also leases nine OTBs located in these southeast Louisiana communities: Covington, consisting of approximately 7,000 square feet of space; Elmwood, which consists of approximately 14,000 square feet of space; Gretna, which consists of approximately 20,000 square feet of space; Houma, which consists of approximately 10,000 square feet of space; Laplace, which consists of approximately 7,000 square feet of space; Metairie, which consists of approximately 9,000 square feet of space; St. Bernard which consists of approximately 12,000 square feet of space; Slidell, which consists of approximately 9,000 square feet of space; and Thibodaux, which consists of approximately 5,000 square feet of space. Video poker is offered at the on-site OTB, Kenner, Elmwood, Gretna, Houma, LaPlace, Metairie, St. Bernard and Thibodaux. On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused significant damage to the OTBs affiliated with Fair Grounds. As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, all OTBs have reopened except the Fair Grounds OTB, the Metairie OTB, the St. Bernard OTB and the Slidell OTB. The status of these closed OTBs remains uncertain. We carry property and casualty insurance and are currently working with our insurance carriers to determine to what extent insurance proceeds will offset any losses. Kentucky Off-Track Betting, LLC We are a 50% owner in Kentucky Off-Track Betting, LLC ("KOTB”), with 25% of this ownership through our Ellis Park racetrack and the other 25% of this ownership through our Churchill Downs racetrack. KOTB's purpose is to own and operate facilities for the simulcasting of races and the acceptance of wagers on such races at Kentucky locations other than a racetrack. These OTBs may be located no closer than 75 miles from an existing racetrack without the racetrack's consent and in no event closer than 50 miles to an existing racetrack. Each OTB must first be approved by the Kentucky Horse Racing Authority (“KHRA”) and the local government where the facility is to be located. KOTB currently owns or leases and operates OTBs in Corbin, Maysville, Jamestown and Pineville, Kentucky that conduct simulcast wagering year-round. OTBs developed by KOTB provide additional markets for the intrastate simulcasting of and wagering on Churchill Downs' and Ellis Park's live races and interstate simulcasting of and wagering on out-of-state signals. KOTB did not contribute significantly to our operations in 2005 and is not anticipated to have a substantial impact on our operations in the future. Our investment in KOTB is not material to our financial position or results of operations. In-Home Wagering In-home wagering, or account wagering, allows patrons to place wagers through an advance deposit account established with an operating company. Most operating companies provide distribution of the live racing product and accept wagers through a broadcast medium such as television or the Internet. We have entered into agreements with Television Games Network ("TVG"), affiliated with Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc., which licensed to TVG the rights to broadcast our live racing products as part of TVG's programming content, as well as accept wagers on the products. Such agreements expire on various dates between March 2007 and April 2008. We receive a simulcast host fee and a source market fee for these licenses. We believe that in-home wagering will attract both new patrons and existing racing fans who will use account wagering in addition to the live track and OTB operations. We view this distribution channel as a potential source of future growth in the off-track market in states where it is not expressly prohibited and we intend to continue to pursue the expansion of in-home wagering. D. Sources of Revenue Our pari-mutuel revenues include commissions on pari-mutuel wagering at our racetracks and OTBs (net of state pari-mutuel taxes), plus simulcast host fees from other wagering sites and source market fees generated from contracts with our in-home wagering providers. In addition to the commissions earned on pari-mutuel wagering, we earn pari-mutuel related streams of revenues from sources that are not related to wagering. These other revenues are primarily derived from statutory racing regulations in some of the states where our facilities are located and can fluctuate materially year-to-year. Non-wagering revenues are primarily generated from admissions, sponsorships, licensing rights and broadcast fees, Indiana riverboat admissions subsidy, concessions, video poker, lease income and other sources. 8 Return to Index Financial information about our segments required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the information contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. E. Licenses and Live Race Dates The following table is a summary of our live racing dates and the number of live racing days for each of our six racetracks and Hollywood Park during the portion of 2005 that it was under our ownership. Racing dates are generally approved by the respective state racing authorities: 2006 2005 Racetrack Racing Dates # of Days Racing Dates # of Days Churchill Downs Spring Meet April 29 - July 16 57 April 30 - July 10 52 Fall Meet Oct. 29 - Nov. 25 21 Oct. 30 - Nov. 26 21 78 73 Calder Race Course Calder Meet April 25 - Oct. 15 112 April 25 - Oct. 16 120 Tropical Meet 05/06 Jan. 1 - Jan. 2 2 Jan. 1 - Jan. 2. 2 Tropical Meet 06/07 Oct. 16 - Dec. 31 58 Oct. 17 - Dec. 31 53 172 175 Arlington Park May 5 - Sept. 14 94 May 13 - Sept. 18 94 Ellis Park July 19 - Sept. 4 36 July 13 - Sept. 5 41 Hoosier Park Standardbred Meet April 1 - June 24 60 April 2 - June 25 61 Thoroughbred Meet Sept. 2 - Nov. 25 61 Sept. 3 - Nov. 25 57 121 118 Fair Grounds Winter Meet 04/05 Jan. 1 - March 27 61 Winter Meet 05/06* Jan. 1 - Jan. 22 12 Nov. 19 - Dec. 31 25 Winter Meet 06/07** Nov. 23 - Dec. 31 23 35 86 Hollywood Park Spring/Summer Meet N/A April 22 - July 17 64 * Temporary live race meeting conducted at Louisiana Downs. ** Due to damage sustained by Hurricane Katrina, we have not yet determined whether live racing will resume at Fair Grounds on its scheduled date. Kentucky's racetracks, including Churchill Downs and Ellis Park, are subject to the licensing and regulation of the KHRA. The KHRA is responsible for overseeing horse racing and regulating the state equine industry. Licenses to conduct live Thoroughbred race meets and to participate in simulcasting are approved annually by the KHRA based upon applications submitted by the racetracks in Kentucky. To some extent Churchill Downs and Ellis Park compete with other racetracks in Kentucky for the award of racing dates, however, the KHRA is required by state law to consider and seek to preserve each racetrack's usual and customary live racing dates. Generally, there is no substantial change from year to year in the racing dates awarded to each racetrack. For 2006, approximately one week of live racing was transferred from Ellis Park to Churchill Downs. 9 Return to IndexIn Florida, licenses to conduct live Thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcasting are approved by the Department of Business and Professional Regulation, Division of Pari-Mutuel Wagering ("DPW"). The DPW is responsible for overseeing the network of state offices located at every pari-mutuel wagering facility, as well as issuing the permits necessary to operate a pari-mutuel wagering facility. The DPW also issues annual licenses for Thoroughbred, Standardbred and Quarter Horse races. Calder may face direct competition from other Florida racetracks, including Miami-area racetracks, and may be subject to an increase or decrease in live racing dates in the future. During 2006, Calder has opted to conduct eight fewer days of live racing in order to increase purses and maximize the quality of the racing product. During December of 2005, Calder and Gulf Stream Park entered into an agreement to allow year-round simulcasting at both facilities in the Miami area. The agreement was the result of a Florida appellate court decision in a case brought by Gulfstream Park invalidating a statute that prohibited a racetrack from simulcasting when it was not conducting live racing. The DPW appealed the decision to the Florida Supreme Court and, in mid-January of 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a stay ordering Calder to cease simulcast operations until the case is decided. In Illinois, licenses to conduct live Thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcasting are approved by the Illinois Racing Board ("IRB"). Generally, there is no substantial change from year to year in the number of racing dates awarded to each racetrack. In Indiana, licenses to conduct live Standardbred and Thoroughbred race meets, including Quarter Horse races, and to participate in simulcasting are approved annually by the Indiana Horse Racing Commission (“IHRC”) based upon applications submitted by Indiana racetracks. Indiana law requires live racing for at least 120 days each year in order to simulcast races. A second racetrack in Indiana, Indiana Downs, was opened on December 6, 2002, resulting in changes to Hoosier Park's traditional racing dates. The addition of a second racetrack in Indiana, located approximately 32 miles from Hoosier Park, also negatively impacts Hoosier Park's share of the riverboat admissions revenue and creates an increase in competition in the market. These factors have had an adverse impact on future profitability of the facility. In Louisiana, licenses to conduct live Thoroughbred racing and to participate in simulcasting are approved by the Louisiana State Racing Commission ("LSRC"). The LSRC is responsible for overseeing the awarding of licenses for the conduct of live race meets, the conduct of Thoroughbred horse racing, the types of wagering which may be offered by pari-mutuel facilities and the disposition of revenue generated from wagering. Off-track wagering is also regulated by the LSRC. Louisiana law requires live racing for at least 80 days over a 20 week period each year to maintain the license and to conduct alternative gaming. Failure to maintain the racing license would result in the loss of the alternative gaming licenses. During 2005, the LSRC granted Fair Grounds a temporary license to conduct live racing at Louisiana Downs following the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The LSRC also relieved the minimum number of days required to race under the license for the 2005-2006 race meeting. The manufacture, distribution, servicing and operation of video draw poker devices ("Devices") in Louisiana are subject to the Louisiana Video Draw Poker Devices Control Law and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Louisiana Act"). Licensing and regulatory control is maintained by a single gaming control board for the regulation of gaming in Louisiana. This Board, created on May 1, 1996, is called the Louisiana Gaming Control Board (the "Louisiana Board") and oversees all licensing for all forms of legalized gaming in Louisiana (including all regulatory enforcement and supervisory authority that exists in the state as to gaming on Native American lands). The Video Gaming Division of the Gaming Enforcement Section of the Office of the State Police within the Department of Public Safety and Corrections (the "Division") performs the investigative functions for the Louisiana Board. The laws and regulations of Louisiana are based on policies of maintaining the health, welfare and safety of the general public and protecting the video gaming industry from elements of organized crime, illegal gambling activities and other harmful elements, as well as protecting the public from illegal and unscrupulous gaming to ensure the fair play of devices. The total number of days on which each racetrack conducts live racing fluctuates annually according to each calendar year. A substantial change in the allocation of live racing days at any of our six racetracks could significantly impact our operations and earnings in future years. 10 Return to Index F. Competition Competition with other racetracks or OTBs for live, on-track patron attendance depends upon the geographic separation of facilities or differences in seasonal timing of meets. We believe that a new OTB opened in Evansville, Indiana by a competitor has had a negative impact on Ellis Park. Also, we believe that an OTB opened in Clarksville, Indiana in 2004 has had a negative impact on Churchill Downs racetrack and simulcast operations. In addition, Calder competes directly with other Miami-based racetracks. The Miami-based pari-mutuel wagering facilities located in Broward County have received authorization to operate slot machines. The timing of the operation of slot machines at those facilities is uncertain at this time. The Hoosier Park market has also had an increase in competition with the opening of Indiana Downs. In addition, we may face competition from other racetracks for live racing days. We face competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options, including riverboat casinos, racetracks that offer casino-style gaming, cruise ships with casinos, land-based casinos and state lotteries. Additionally, the industry faces increasing competition for overall wagering dollars from Internet wagering services, which are often established off-shore and avoid regulation under U.S. state and federal laws. There are currently five riverboat casinos operating on the Ohio River along Kentucky's border and five riverboat casinos operating along the Indiana shore of Lake Michigan, and an 11th casino approved for construction in Orange County, Indiana. Another four riverboat casinos are situated in Illinois near Chicago. There are also Native American gaming operations in Wisconsin and Florida, which have drawn patrons from the Arlington Park and Calder Race Course markets, respectively. Fair Grounds competes in the New Orleans area with three riverboat casinos, one land-based casino and video poker operations located at various truck stops and restaurants. These competitors have been adversely impacted by Hurricane Katrina, and their reestablishment is uncertain at this time. In response to the continued increased competition from other gaming options, the horse racing industry continues to search for new sources of revenue. Several recent developments are anticipated to be key contributors to overall growth within the industry. The repeal of a Federal withholding tax on foreign wagers removes an impediment for U.S. racetracks seeking to penetrate international markets. Other developments focus on increasing the core customer base and developing new fans through new technology to increase the distribution of racing content, and through developing better identification of existing customers to increase revenues from existing sources. Finally, the industry continues to seek additional ways to draw new and existing customers to live racing venues. Each of these developments is highly dependent on the regulatory environment and legal developments within individual state jurisdictions. Alternative Gaming The National Thoroughbred Racing Association (“NTRA”), the representative body for the racing industry, supports the alternative gaming movement at racetracks and is working with regulators and legislators to pass alternative gaming legislation. Alternative gaming refers to the operation of slot machines or electronic gaming devices within a racing facility or OTB. In general, the NTRA and the racing industry believe that alternative gaming will result in the following benefits: · Higher racetrack revenues and purse levels with pass through benefits to breed developers and breeding farms; · Increased tax revenues for states and local municipalities; and · Increased attendance at live track facilities driven primarily by "casual fans," or those who are patrons of traditional gaming operations such as casinos but are not racing customers. 11 Return to Index G. Legislative Changes Federal In 2003, the country of Antigua filed a formal complaint against the United States with the World Trade Organization ("WTO"), challenging the United States' ability to enforce certain Federal gaming laws (Sections 1084, 1952 and 1955 of Title 18 of the United States Code known as the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act, respectively, and collectively the "Acts") against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from United States residents. At issue was whether the United States' enforcement of the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act against foreign companies violated the General Agreement on Trade in Services ("GATS"). In November of 2004, a WTO panel ruled that the United States, as a signatory of GATS, could not enforce the Acts against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from United States residents. The United States appealed the ruling and, in April of 2005, the WTO's appellate body ruled that the United States had demonstrated that the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act were measures necessary to protect public morals or maintain public order, but that the United States did not enforce the Acts consistently between domestic companies and foreign companies as required by GATS. The WTO's appellate body specifically referenced the Interstate Horseracing Act, which appeared to authorize domestic companies to accept Internet wagers on horse racing, as being inconsistent with the United States' stated policy against Internet wagering. In arguments and briefs before the WTO's appellate body, the United States argued that the Acts, specifically the Wire Act, applies equally to domestic companies and foreign companies and the Interstate Horseracing Act does not create an exception for domestic companies to accept Internet wagering on horseracing. The WTO's appellate body did not rule on whether an exception was created, but recommended that the WTO's Dispute Settlement Body request the United States bring measures found to be inconsistent with GATS into conformity with its obligations with GATS. The United States has until April 3, 2006, to bring its policies in line with the ruling, assuming it believes any changes are necessary. The effect of this ruling on the ability of domestic companies to accept Internet wagers and other account wagers on horse racing is unclear. The NTRA, on behalf of its members, including Churchill Downs Incorporated, is currently in discussions with the U.S. Trade Representative on various alternatives the United States may choose to take both administratively and legislatively in the wake of the appellate ruling. Indiana During April of 2005, Senate Enrolled Act 92 ("SEA 92"), a bill that makes it a Class D Felony for an operator to use the Internet to engage in unlawful gambling in Indiana or with a person located in Indiana, passed both chambers of the Indiana General Assembly and was signed by the Governor. An "operator", as defined by SEA 92, is a person who owns, maintains or operates an Internet site that is used for interactive gambling. Under SEA 92, effective July 1, 2005, an operator is guilty of professional gambling if it uses the Internet to accept, or offer to accept, for profit, money or other property risked in gambling in Indiana or in a transaction directly involving a person located in Indiana. We receive source market fees from various in-home wagering providers for the licensing of our live racing products in the distribution of such products through broadcast mediums such as television or the Internet. TVG, one of our major in-home providers in Indiana, ceased operations in Indiana due to legal uncertainty. Florida On November 2, 2004, Amendment 4, a slot machine question which sought to allow voters in Miami-Dade and Broward counties to hold local referenda on the issue, passed by a margin of 1.4%. On March 8, 2005, voters in Miami-Dade and Broward counties voted in separate local referenda to decide whether slot machines could be installed at the seven existing pari-mutuel sites in those counties, including Calder. Although the measure passed in Broward County, home of Gulfstream Park, it was unsuccessful in Miami-Dade County, where Calder is located. Slot machine gaming was approved by the Florida legislature during a special session of the Florida legislature on December 9, 2005. Slot operations are expected to commence at Broward's four pari-mutuels in early summer of 2006. We believe that the failure of the local referendum to pass in Miami-Dade County was due primarily to Governor Bush's active opposition to the measure during the final days of the campaign. We are preparing a strategy to seek passage in Miami-Dade County when the issue can again be placed on the ballot. The earliest that it can be placed on the ballot is 2007. We are currently determining when it can be placed on the ballot. The impact on our results of operations and financial position of the failed referendum in Miami-Dade County and the operation of slot machines at pari-mutual wagering facilities in Broward County is uncertain at this time. 12 Return to Index Illinois Pursuant to the Illinois Horse Racing Act, Arlington Park (and all other Illinois racetracks) is permitted to receive a payment commonly known as purse recapture. Generally, in any year that wagering on Illinois horse races at Arlington Park is less than 75% of wagering both in Illinois and at Arlington Park on Illinois horse races in 1994, Arlington Park is permitted to receive 2% of the difference in wagering in the subsequent year. The payment is funded from the Arlington Park purse account. Under the Illinois Horse Racing Act, the Arlington Park purse account is to be repaid via an appropriation by the Illinois General Assembly from the Illinois General Revenue Fund. However, this appropriation has not been made since 2001. Subsequently, Illinois horsemen unsuccessfully petitioned the Illinois Racing Board (“IRB”) to prevent Illinois racetracks from receiving this payment in any year that the Illinois General Assembly did not appropriate the repayment to the racetrack's purse accounts from the General Revenue Fund. Further, the Illinois horsemen filed lawsuits seeking, among other things, to block payment to Illinois racetracks, as well as to recover the 2002 and 2003 amounts already paid to the Illinois racetracks. These lawsuits filed by the Illinois horsemen challenging the 2002 and 2003 reimbursements have been resolved in favor of Arlington Park and the other Illinois racetracks. Several bills were filed in the 2003, 2004 and 2005 sessions of the Illinois legislature that, in part, would eliminate the statutory right of Arlington Park and the other Illinois racetracks to continue to receive this payment. None of these bills passed. As the legal right still exists, Arlington Park has elected to continue to receive the recapture payment from the purse account. If Arlington Park loses the statutory right to receive this payment, there would be a material adverse impact on Arlington Park's results of operations. Arlington Park is entitled under law to share in the proceeds of the Illinois Horse Racing Equity Fund. The Illinois Horse Racing Equity Fund is to be funded by the 10th riverboat license issued in Illinois at a rate of 15% of the adjusted gross receipts. The grant of the 10th riverboat license is currently the subject of numerous legal challenges and, as such, is currently not an operational riverboat license. At such time should the 10th riverboat license in Illinois be granted and a riverboat become operational, Arlington Park would be entitled to receive additional revenue, which could be significant. As an alternative, a proposal has been made during the 2006 Spring session of the Illinois legislature that would direct 3% of adjusted gross receipts from most riverboat casinos to be placed into the Illinois Horse Racing Equity Fund. All Illinois racetracks and horsemen groups support the proposal. The riverboat casinos are lobbying against the proposal. During January and February when there is no live racing in Illinois, the IRB designates a Thoroughbred racetrack as the host track in Illinois. The IRB appointed Arlington Park as the host track in Illinois during January 2005, which resulted in pari-mutuel revenues comparable to the same period in 2004. The IRB did not appoint Arlington Park as the host track in Illinois for February 2005, which resulted in a decrease of $1.8 million in pre-tax earnings for the month of February of 2005 compared to the same period of 2004. The IRB appointed Arlington Park the host track in Illinois during January 2006 for 29 days, which is the same as January 2005. In addition, Arlington Park was appointed the host track for eight days during February of 2006. Arlington Park's future designation as the host track is subject to the annual appointment by the IRB. A change in the number of days that Arlington Park is designated "host track" could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Kentucky The Kentucky horse industry continues to seek legal authority to offer alternative forms of gaming at Kentucky's eight existing racetracks. Alternative forms of gaming would enable our Kentucky racetracks to better compete with neighboring gaming venues by providing substantial new revenues for purses and capital improvements. Several alternative gaming bills have been filed in the 2006 session of the Kentucky General Assembly, including two bills filed in the House and in the Senate. The Kentucky Equine Education Project ("KEEP"), an alliance of the Commonwealth's equine industry leaders, including our Company, supports legislation that calls for a statewide voter referendum in the Fall of 2006 to amend the State constitution to allow Kentucky's eight racetracks to offer full casino gaming. The Commonwealth's share of the new revenue would be earmarked for education, healthcare, local development and environmental concerns benefiting the entire Commonwealth under the KEEP plan. The Senate President has continued to be publicly opposed to alternative gaming. The Governor, on the other hand, states that he would not stop legislation authorizing alternative forms of gaming if it were passed by the House and Senate, but he continues to publicly question the economics. Legislation is not expected to successfully pass during the 2006 legislative session. 13 Return to Index Louisiana We have received statutory, regulatory and other authorizations to operate slot machines at Fair Grounds. Failure to maintain the necessary gaming licenses to own and operate slot machines at Fair Grounds could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Under the Louisiana statute, Fair Grounds may operate 500 slot machines. As a result of Hurricane Katrina, the agreement between Harrah's Casino in New Orleans and the State of Louisiana has been amended to eliminate the $350.0 million gaming revenue threshold before Fair Grounds may operate 700 slot machines. Fair Grounds is currently pursuing a conforming statutory amendment. Due to Hurricane Katrina, we are currently evaluating the feasibility of beginning construction of a new slot facility. Churchill Downs Louisiana Horseracing Company, LLC has completed the process to seek the necessary local zoning change and permits. On August 18, 2005, the New Orleans City Council passed ordinances approving hours of operation for slot machines at Fair Grounds as part of its conditional use permit. The ordinances also established additional provisos negotiated by Churchill Downs Louisiana Horseracing Company, LLC and the New Orleans City Council relating to other conditional use activities. In April 2005, the New Orleans City Council instructed the city attorney to file a declaratory judgment action to determine if installation of slot machines at Fair Grounds would violate the City Charter. The Louisiana Attorney General has expressed an opinion that the addition of slots at the racetrack would not violate the City Charter. In June 2005, a resident living near Fair Grounds filed a lawsuit alleging, among other claims, that slot machines at the racetrack would be a violation of the City Charter, which limits New Orleans to one land-based casino. Based upon an opinion from the Louisiana Attorney General and other legal advice, we do not believe the installation of slot machines at Fair Grounds violates the City Charter. California In California, Hollywood Park was part of a coalition of racetracks and card clubs supporting Proposal 68 on the November 2004 ballot. The proposal failed to pass by a margin of 16% to 84%. If passed, this initiative would have directed the governor to renegotiate all existing compacts with Native American tribes in California. If the tribes had declined to renegotiate the existing compacts, then five racetracks, including Hollywood Park, and 11 card clubs would have been allowed to operate electronic gaming devices. We continue to work with other members of the California horse industry on a long-term strategy for developing a legislative agenda that addresses the competitive advantages afforded to Native American casinos due to the fact that we entered into a reinvestment agreement related to the Hollywood Park Racetrack business in accordance with the sale of the assets of Hollywood Park (as more fully described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). Additional information regarding how our facilities could be impacted by legislative changes is included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. H. Environmental Matters The septic system at our Ellis Park facility must be replaced with a hook-up to city sewers. The project is currently being evaluated by assessing the benefits of different options for remediation. It is unknown at this time when the project will begin or what the ultimate cost to the Company will be, but once the project occurs, it is estimated that the cost will exceed $1.5 million. It is not anticipated that we will have any material liability as a result of non-compliance with environmental laws with respect to any of our properties. Compliance with environmental laws has not materially affected the ability to develop and operate our properties and we are not otherwise subject to any material compliance costs in connection with federal or state environmental laws. 14 Return to Index I. Service Marks We hold numerous state and federal service mark registrations on specific names and designs in various categories including the entertainment business, apparel, paper goods, printed matter and house wares and glass. We license the use of these service marks and derive revenue from such license agreements. J. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 1,350 full-time employees Company-wide. Due to the seasonal nature of our live racing business, the number of seasonal and part-time persons employed will vary throughout the year. During 2005, average full-time and seasonal employment per pay period was approximately 2,550 individuals Company-wide. K. Internet Access Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on or through our website (www.churchilldownsincorporated.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and company could materially impact our future performance and results. The factors described below are the most significant risks that could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general may also impair our business and operations. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry. While some of our facilities do not compete directly with other racetracks or OTBs for live, on-track patron attendance due to geographic separation of facilities or differences in seasonal timing of meetings, other of our facilities compete with other racetracks and off-track wagering facilities, some of which offer alternative forms of gaming, such as slot machines, that provide these facilities with the advantage of additional entertainment options. For example, Hoosier Park's market experienced an increase in competition when Indiana Downs, another racetrack, opened near Hoosier Park, and Indiana Downs' OTBs in Evansville and Clarksville, Indiana have had a negative impact on patron attendance at Ellis Park and Churchill Downs and their simulcast operations, respectively. In Florida, Calder Race Course may face competition directly from other Miami-based racetracks in the future. There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition discussed above, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track wagering. Declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, has lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at our facilities and on races conducted at our racetracks and may materially, adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. 15 Return to Index An apparent decline in the popularity of horse racing, as evidenced by decreased industry handle generated during 2005, could adversely impact our business. The continued popularity of horse racing is important to our growth plans and our operating results. Our business plan anticipates attracting new customers to our racetracks and OTBs and off-track betting facilities. Even if we are successful in making acquisitions and expanding and improving our current operations, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to achieve our business plan. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in the interest in horse racing or any change may adversely impact our revenues and, therefore, our results of operations. Declining on-track attendance and increasing competition in simulcasting may have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. We also compete for patrons with other sports, entertainment and gaming operations, including land-based, riverboat, cruise ship and Native American casinos and state lotteries. While we currently receive revenues from wagering activity on our racing content over certain third party account wagering sites, we face competition from gaming companies that operate on-line and Internet-based gaming services. These services allow patrons to wager on a wide variety of sporting events from home. Unlike most on-line and Internet-based gaming companies, our business requires significant and ongoing capital expenditures for both its continued operation and expansion. We also could face significantly greater costs in operating our business compared to these gaming companies. We cannot offer the same number of gaming options as on-line and Internet-based gaming companies. In addition, many on-line and Internet gaming companies are based off-shore and avoid regulation under U.S. state and federal laws. These companies may divert wagering dollars from legitimate wagering venues such as our racetracks. Competition in the gaming industry is likely to increase due to limited opportunities for growth in new markets. Our inability to compete successfully with these competitors could have a material, adverse affect on our business. We Face Extensive Regulation from Various Authorities The operation of pari-mutuel wagering and gaming facilities is subject to extensive state and local regulation. We depend on continued state approval of legalized gaming in states where we operate. Our wagering and racing facilities must meet the licensing requirements of various regulatory authorities, including the KHRA, the IHRC, the Florida DPW, the LSRC, the Louisiana Board and the IRB. In Louisiana, our gaming operations must meet the licensing requirements of the Louisiana Gaming Control Board. As part of this regulatory framework, licenses to conduct live horse racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are granted annually, and gaming licenses in Louisiana are granted every five years. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our racetracks and gaming facilities. However, we may be unable to maintain our existing licenses. In Louisiana, gaming licenses are contingent upon maintaining the racing license, and we must conduct 80 live race days within a 20 week period in order to maintain the racing license. In Indiana, we must conduct 120 live race days in order to conduct simulcasting. The loss of or material change in our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct and could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. The high degree of regulation in the gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy. Potential Changes in Legislation and Regulation of Our Operations Our gaming operations exist at the discretion of the states where we conduct business. Certain aspects of our gaming operations are also subject to federal statutes or regulations. All of our pari-mutuel wagering operations are contingent upon continued governmental approval of those operations as forms of legalized gaming. Legislation to limit or prohibit gaming (pari-mutuel or non-pari-mutuel) may be introduced in the future. Any restriction on or prohibition of gaming operations could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, any expansion of our gaming operations into alternative gaming, such as slot machines, video lottery terminals and other forms of non-pari-mutuel gaming, will likely require various additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly, and there is no assurance of success. We have and continue to seek legal authority to offer alternative gaming at our racetracks where alternative gaming is not currently permitted. 16 Return to Index The Indiana horse racing industry currently receives a subsidy from riverboat casinos. Currently the subsidy is distributed as follows: 40% for purse expenses, 20% for breed development and 40% for the two existing racetrack operators, which is divided equally. During March of 2006, the IHRC approved “Integrity ’06,” a program designed to improve the integrity of horse racing in Indiana that is effective April 1, 2006. The estimated cost of complying with the rules and regulations created by “Integrity ‘06” will be financed by the two existing racetrack operators in Indiana using the subsidy paid by riverboat casinos, which is estimated to be 2% of the total subsidy. As a result, beginning April 1, 2006, the subsidy will be distributed as follows: 39.2% for purse expenses, 19.6% for breed development and 41.2% for the two existing racetrack operators, which is divided equally. Any change in this arrangement could adversely impact our operations in Indiana and the value of this operation. In Illinois, the IRB has the authority to designate racetracks as "host track" for the purpose of receiving host track revenues generated during periods when no racetrack is conducting live races. Racetracks that are designated as "host track" obtain and distribute out of state simulcast signals for the State of Illinois. Under Illinois law, the "host track" is entitled to a larger portion of commissions on the related pari-mutuel wagering. Failure to designate Arlington Park as "host track" during this period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, Arlington Park is statutorily entitled to recapture as revenues monies that are otherwise payable to Arlington Park's purse account. The right to recapture these revenues is subject to change every legislative session. These statutory or regulatory established revenue sources are subject to change every legislative session. The reduction or elimination of any one of them could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, certain revenue sources are dedicated by legislation or regulation and may be subject to change. The passage of legislation permitting alternative gaming at racetracks can be a long and uncertain process. As a result, there can be no assurance that (1) jurisdictions in which we own or operate racetracks will pass legislation permitting alternative gaming, (2) if jurisdictions pass such legislation, it will be permitted at our racetracks, and (3) if alternative gaming is permitted at our racetracks, it will be on economically viable terms. If alternative gaming legislation is enacted in any jurisdiction where we own or operate a racetrack and we proceed to conduct alternative gaming, there may be significant costs and other resources to be expended and there will be significant risks involved, including the risk of changes in the enabling legislation, that may have a material, adverse impact on that racetrack's results of operations. We May Not be Able to Attract Quality Horses and Trainers To provide high quality horse racing, we must attract the country's top horses and trainers. Our success in attracting the top horses and trainers largely depends on the overall horse population available for racing and our ability to offer and fund competitive purses. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas and Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome ("MRLS") which caused a large number of mares in Kentucky to sustain late term abortions or early embryonic loss in 2001. With respect to MRLS, the number of foals registered in 2005 was the same as the number registered in 2004, indicating a stabilization of the foal crop. The number of Thoroughbreds registered has an impact on the number of horses available to participate in live racing. The stabilization of bloodstock sales during 2005 is primarily attributed to an improving economy, favorable tax law changes for horse purchasers and the strength of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which helped drive increased participation by overseas buyers. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to operate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenues for race purses and capital improvements. Any decline in the number of suitable race horses could prevent us from attracting top horses and trainers and may require us to reduce the number of live races we present. A reduction in suitable race horses could force us to increase the size of our purses or other benefits we offer, to conduct fewer races or to accept horses of a lower quality. 17 Return to Index We Experience Significant Seasonal Fluctuations in Operating Results We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results due to seasonality and other factors. We have a limited number of live racing days at our racetracks, and the number of live racing days varies from year to year. The number of live racing days we can offer directly affects our operating results. A significant decrease in the number of live racing days and/or live races could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Our live racing schedule dictates that we earn a substantial portion of our net earnings in the second quarter of each year, when the Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks races are run over the first weekend in May. Business interruption, such as weather conditions, could affect our ability to conduct our material races. Any adverse impact on our races, including the Kentucky Derby, the Kentucky Oaks and the key races at our other tracks could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Our Business Depends on Providers of Totalisator Services In purchasing and selling our pari-mutuel wagering products, our customers depend on information provided by United Tote Company, Scientific Games Racing and AmTote International, Inc. These totalisator companies provide the computer systems that accumulate wagers, record sales, calculate payoffs and display wagering data in a secure manner. These are the only three major vendors that provide this service in North America. The loss of any one of these vendors as a provider of this critical service would decrease competition and could result in an increase in the cost to obtain these services. Because of the highly specialized nature of these services, replicating these totalisator services would be expensive. In addition, we rely upon the totalisator company's computer systems to ensure the integrity of our wagering process. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. The failure of totalisator companies to keep their technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively or develop new forms of wagering and/or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product. We May be Held Responsible for Contamination, Even if We Did Not Cause the Contamination Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. In addition, environmental laws and regulations could hold us responsible for the cost of cleaning up hazardous materials contaminating real property that we own or operate or properties at which we have disposed of hazardous materials, even if we did not cause the contamination. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the applicable environmental laws and have no material cleanup obligations. However, if we fail to comply with environmental laws or if contamination is discovered, a court or government agency could impose severe penalties or restrictions on our operations or assess us with the costs of taking remedial actions. Inclement Weather and Other Conditions Since horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause races to be cancelled and/or wagering to suffer. Our operations are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. During 2005, we sustained disruption to our operations at Calder Race Course in Florida, Fair Grounds Race Course and our OTB locations in Louisiana, and Ellis Park in Kentucky due to the damage caused by hurricanes and a tornado. Although we were able to run a shortened Fair Grounds race meet at another location, this facility remains closed due to the extent of the damage suffered from Hurricane Katrina. The timing of the re-opening of this facility and three of the OTBs in Louisiana remains uncertain. We are also restoring Ellis Park for operation of its 2006 summer meet. Any flood or other severe weather condition that could lead to the loss of use of our other facilities for an extended period could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. We May Not be Able to Complete Acquisition or Expansion Projects on Time, on Budget or As Planned We expect to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for development, including acquisition of other properties and ways to expand our business operations, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates and/or development partners. 18 Return to Index We could face challenges in identifying development projects that fit our strategic objectives, identifying potential acquisition candidates and/or development partners, negotiating projects on acceptable terms, and managing and integrating the acquisition or development projects. The integration of new operations and any other properties we may acquire or develop will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating new properties or projects may also interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that any new properties or developments will be completed or integrated successfully. Management of new properties or business operations, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. We cannot assure that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or developments. We Depend on Agreements with Our Horsemen The U.S. Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as well as various state racing laws, require that we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks in order to simulcast races, and in some cases conduct live racing. We also have written agreements with horse owners with regards to the proceeds of gaming machines in Louisiana. The failure to maintain agreements with our horsemen and industry associations on satisfactory terms could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. We Depend on Key Personnel We are highly dependant on the services of Thomas H. Meeker, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. We have initiated a formal succession plan to hire the successor to Mr. Meeker who plans to retire from the Company when his employment contract expires in March of 2007. Our inability to successfully replace Mr. Meeker and hire and retain key personnel could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. We May Not be Able to Adequately Insure Our Properties The significant damage and resulting insurance claims caused by (i) Hurricane Katrina to the New Orleans, Louisiana area and our Fair Grounds facility and OTBs; (ii) Hurricane Wilma to South Florida and our Calder Race Course facility; and (iii) a tornado that struck our Ellis Park facility, will increase the costs of obtaining property coverage for our facilities and significantly impact our ability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at our facilities. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at reasonable prices could have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Other Risks Many other risks beyond our control could seriously disrupt our operations, including: • The effect of global economic conditions; • The effect (including possible increases in the cost of doing business) resulting from future war and terrorist activities or political uncertainties; • The economic environment; • The impact of interest rate fluctuations; • The financial performance of our racing operations; • Costs associated with our efforts in support of alternative gaming initiatives; • Costs associated with Customer Relationship Management initiatives; and • Our accountability for environmental contamination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Return to Index ITEM 