ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and company could materially impact our future performance and results. The factors described below are the most significant risks that could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general may also impair our business and operations. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. General Economic Trends are Unfavorable There is a strong likelihood that the recent significant economic downturn has had, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a negative impact on our financial performance. The recent, severe economic downturn and adverse conditions in local, regional, national and global markets has negatively impacted our operations and will likely continue to do so in the near future. During periods of economic contraction like that currently being experienced, certain costs remain fixed or even increase, while revenues decline. Horseracing and related activities, as well as the gaming services we provide, are similar to other leisure activities in that they represent discretionary expenditures likely to decline during economic downturns. In some cases, even the perception of an impending economic downturn or the continuation of a recessionary climate can be enough to discourage consumers from spending on leisure activities. For example, one major horseracing company, MEC, has stated its ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt. MEC owns several racetracks, including, among others, Santa Anita, Gulfstream Park, Lone Star Park, Laurel and Pimlico. It also owns Xpressbet, an ADW business. As such, it provides racing signals for wagering at our racetracks and through TwinSpires.com for import simulcast purposes and markets for export simulcast purposes. In addition, it is the co-owner of TrackNet and HRTV. MEC also owns Amtote International, Inc. (“Amtote”), a totalisator company that provides totalisator services to Arlington Park, Calder, Fair Grounds and TwinSpires. We cannot predict at this time whether MEC will file bankruptcy and what the effect will be of such bankruptcy on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We Face Significant Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry with a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than ours. The industry faces competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options. Competitive gaming activities include traditional and Native American casinos, video lottery terminals, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Additionally, web-based interactive gaming and wagering is growing rapidly and affecting competition in our industry. We anticipate competition in this area will become more intense as new web-based ventures enter the industry. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms in many U.S. states and Canada. Other jurisdictions could legalize gaming in the future, and established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. All of our racetracks face competition in the simulcast market. Approximately 50,000 horse races are conducted annually in the U.S. Of these races, CDI hosts approximately 4,100 races each year, or around eight percent of the total. As a content provider, we compete for wagering dollars in the simulcast market with other racetracks conducting races at or near the same times as our races. As a racetrack operator, we also compete with other 18 Table of Contents racetracks running live meets at or near the same time as our races for horses. In recent years, this competition has increased as more states legalize gaming allowing slot machines at racetracks with mandatory purse contributions. Over 85 percent of pari-mutuel handle is bet at off-track locations, either at other racetracks, OTBs, casinos, or via the internet. As a content distributor, we compete for these dollars to be wagered at our racetracks, OTBs and via our ADW business. Calder, our thoroughbred racetrack in Miami, Florida faces direct competition from another thoroughbred racetrack in Miami, Florida. The two racetracks are located approximately 6.5 miles apart. Under Florida law, racetracks are permitted to race throughout the year, subject to an annual notification filed with the state of Florida on March 31 of each year. As a result, Calder and the other racetrack, respectively, may independently elect to host live races on the same days. As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Calder has submitted for 2009-2010 dates that would result in a twenty week overlap. The final submission is due on March 31, 2009. We believe that hosting live races on the same days could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Web-based businesses may offer consumers a wide variety of events to wager on, including other racetracks and other sporting events. Unlike most on-line and web-based gaming companies, our racetracks require significant and ongoing capital expenditures for both their continued operations and expansion. We could also face significantly greater costs in operating our business compared to these gaming companies. We cannot offer the same number of gaming options as on-line and Internet-based gaming companies. Many on-line and web-based gaming companies are based off-shore and avoid regulation under U.S. state and federal laws. These companies may divert wagering dollars from pari-mutuel wagering venues, such as our racetracks. Our inability to compete successfully with these competitors could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The ADW business is sensitive to changes and improvements to technology and new products. Our ability to develop, implement and react to new technology and products for our ADW business is a key factor in our ability to compete with other ADW providers. The Popularity of Horse Racing is Declining There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives as discussed above and unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks with the increasing availability of off-track and ADW options. Declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from simulcasting and ADW businesses. In addition, racetracks and other outlets may be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of business difficulties. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increasing competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives in the simulcasting and ADW markets, could materially, adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We Face Extensive Regulation from Various Authorities The operation of pari-mutuel wagering and gaming facilities is subject to extensive state and local regulation. We depend on continued state approval of legalized gaming in states where we operate. Our wagering and racing facilities must meet the licensing requirements of various regulatory authorities, including the KHRC, the Florida DPW, the ORC, the LSRC, the Louisiana Board and the IRB. Our ADW business must meet the licensing requirements of the ORC as well as those of certain states in which we operate. In Florida, our gaming operations must meet the licensing requirements of the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation. We have not yet applied for a gaming license. In Louisiana, our gaming operations must meet the licensing requirements of the Louisiana Board. As part of this regulatory framework, licenses to conduct live horse racing and to participate in simulcast wagering are granted annually, and gaming licenses in Louisiana are granted every 19 Table of Contents five years. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our racetracks and gaming facilities. However, we may be unable to maintain our existing licenses. In Louisiana, gaming licenses are contingent upon maintaining the racing license, and we must conduct 80 live race days within a 20 week period in order to maintain the racing license. In addition, we must conduct limited, live quarter horse racing. On January 29, 2008, voters in Miami-Dade County, Florida approved the operation of slot machines at Miami-Dade County pari-mutuel facilities, including Calder. The DPW is responsible for issuing permits for the operation of slot machines. We are in the process of applying for the requisite approvals for a slot facility. We have not yet applied for the gaming permit to operate slot machines at Calder. The failure to attain, loss of or material change in our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct as well as our ability to operate slot machines, and/or video poker devices, and could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The high degree of regulation in the gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy. Our expansion into ADW operations will likely require us to obtain additional governmental approvals or, in some cases, amendments to current laws governing such activities. Changes in Legislation and Regulation of Our Operations Could Affect Our Business Our gaming operations exist at the discretion of the states where we conduct business. Certain aspects of our gaming operations are also subject to federal statutes or regulations. All of our pari-mutuel wagering operations are contingent upon continued governmental approval of those operations as forms of legalized gaming. Legislation to limit or prohibit gaming (pari-mutuel or non-pari-mutuel) may be introduced in the future. Any restriction on or prohibition of gaming operations could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any expansion of our gaming operations into gaming, such as slot machines, video lottery terminals and other forms of non-pari-mutuel gaming, will likely require various additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly, and there is no assurance of success. We have and continue to seek legal authority to offer gaming at our racetracks where gaming is not currently permitted. In Illinois, the IRB has the authority to designate racetracks as “host track” for the purpose of receiving host track revenues generated during periods when no racetrack is conducting live races. Racetracks that are designated as “host track” obtain and distribute out of state simulcast signals for the State of Illinois. Under Illinois law, the “host track” is entitled to a larger portion of commissions on the related pari-mutuel wagering. Failure to designate Arlington Park as “host track” during this period could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Arlington Park is statutorily entitled to recapture as revenues monies that are otherwise payable to Arlington Park’s purse account. The right to recapture these revenues is subject to change every legislative session. These statutory or regulatory established revenue sources are subject to change every legislative session. The reduction or elimination of any one of them could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain revenue sources are dedicated by legislation or regulation and may be subject to change. State legislators may also decide to legislate the amounts of certain sources of revenue. For example, certain states mandate a fixed source market fee or require a negotiated source market fee as a condition to obtain a license. The Virginia legislature recently mandated a 10% statewide source market fee. It is uncertain whether this legislation will pass. Legislative and regulatory changes to sources of revenue could have a material, adverse impact in our business, financial condition and results of operations. The passage of legislation permitting gaming at racetracks can be a long and uncertain process. As a result, there can be no assurance that (1) jurisdictions in which we own or operate racetracks will pass legislation permitting gaming, (2) if jurisdictions pass such legislation, it will be permitted at our racetracks, and (3) if gaming is permitted at our racetracks, it will be on economically viable terms. If gaming legislation is enacted in any jurisdiction where we own or operate a racetrack and we proceed to conduct gaming, there may be significant costs and other resources to be expended, and there will be significant risks involved, including the risk of 20 Table of Contents changes in the enabling legislation (such as a decision to prohibit, delay or remove gaming rights at racetracks by the legislation regulatory act of the citizens, or other act) that could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate video poker devices and slot machines in Louisiana, and we are applying for a permit to operate slot machines in Florida. In 2003, the country of Antigua filed a formal complaint against the United States with the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), challenging the United States’ ability to enforce certain Federal gaming laws (Sections 1084, 1952 and 1955 of Title 18 of the United States Code known as the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act, respectively, and collectively the “Acts”) against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from residents of the United States. At issue was whether the United States’ enforcement of the Acts against foreign companies violated the General Agreement on Trade in Services (“GATS”). In November 2004, a WTO panel ruled that the United States, as a signatory of GATS, could not enforce the Acts against foreign companies that were accepting Internet wagers from United States residents. The United States appealed the ruling and, in April 2005, the WTO’s appellate body ruled that the United States had demonstrated that the Acts were measures necessary to protect public morals or maintain public order, but that the United States did not enforce the Acts consistently between domestic companies and foreign companies as required by GATS. The WTO’s appellate body specifically referenced the IHA, which appeared to authorize domestic companies to accept Internet wagers on horse racing, as being inconsistent with the United States’ stated policy against Internet wagering. In arguments and briefs before the WTO’s appellate body, the United States argued that the Acts, specifically the Wire Act, apply equally to domestic companies and foreign companies and the IHA does not create an exception for domestic companies to accept Internet wagering on horse racing. The WTO’s appellate body did not rule on whether an exception for domestic U.S. companies was created under the IHA, but recommended that the WTO’s Dispute Settlement Body request the United States to bring measures found to be inconsistent with GATS into conformity with its obligations under GATS. The United States was given until April 3, 2006 to bring its policies in line with the ruling, assuming it believed any changes were necessary. On April 10, 2006, the United States delegation to the WTO submitted a brief report to the Chairman of the Dispute Settlement Body (“U.S. Report”) stating that no changes are necessary to bring U.S. policies in line with the ruling. In support of its position, the United States delegation informed the Dispute Settlement Body that on April 5, 2006, the United States Department of Justice confirmed the United States Government position regarding remote wagering on horse racing in testimony before a subcommittee of the United States House of Representatives. According to the U.S. Report, in that testimony, the Department of Justice stated its view that regardless of the IHA, existing criminal statutes prohibit the interstate transmission of bets or wagers, including wagers on horse racing, and informed the subcommittee that it is currently undertaking a civil investigation relating to a potential violation of law regarding this activity. On January 25, 2007, the WTO compliance panel issued its interim finding in response to the U.S. Report and found that the United States has failed to comply with previous WTO rulings regarding restrictions on access to the U.S. Internet gaming market. On March 30, 2007, the final report was issued upholding all lower panel decisions. On May 4, 2007, the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) announced that it had initiated the formal process by the United States of withdrawing its GATS commitment to clarify an error that it had made in 1994 by including gambling services in its schedule of commitments. The USTR stated that the United States will use the WTO procedures for clarifying its commitments under the GATS. The USTR also stated that the United States intends to modify its services schedule by clearly defining gambling as an excluded commitment under the GATS. The result of withdrawal would be that the United States would not be obligated to provide foreign providers of gambling services access to the United States market. Under GATS, countries seeking to alter their service trade commitments must compensate trading partners that may potentially be negatively impacted by the change. The U.S. has announced that it compensated certain countries. At this time, the only remaining issue before the WTO appears to be appropriate compensation to affected members of the treaty. The U.S. Government has made offers of compensation to WTO members affected by the decision of the U.S. to rule out any market access commitments regarding cross-border gambling services. In December 2007, the WTO arbitrators awarded Antigua the right to impose sanctions against United States’ intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks and patents, up to an annual amount of $21.0 million. The arbitrators’ award is not subject to appeal under WTO rules. The USTR has made no specific statement regarding how this will impact interstate gambling in horse racing. One of the options available to Congress and the White House is to prohibit or restrict substantially the conduct of interstate simulcast 21 Table of Contents wagering or advance deposit wagering. If the U.S. government elects to take such an approach (including through any action by the Department of Justice), it will have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternatively, if, as a result of the U.S. Government’s position, offshore wagering is permitted in the United States, that could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Face Government and Other Opposition Regarding Our Pari-Mutuel Wagering Operations During 2007, we launched TwinSpires, an ADW business that accepts advance deposit wagers from customers of certain states who set up and fund an account from which they may place wagers via telephone, mobile device or through the internet at www.twinspires.com. The ADW business is heavily regulated, and laws governing advance deposit wagering vary from state to state. We may accept advance deposit wagers from residents of states where the law does not expressly address advance deposit wagering. Some states have expressly authorized advance deposit wagering by their own residents, some states have expressly prohibited pari-mutuel wagering and/or advance deposit wagering and other states have expressly authorized pari-mutuel wagering but have neither expressly authorized nor expressly prohibited their residents from placing wagers through advance deposit wagering hubs located in different states. We believe that an ADW business may open accounts on behalf of and accept wagering instructions from residents of states where pari-mutuel wagering is legal and where providing wagering instructions to ADW businesses in other states is not expressly prohibited by statute, regulations, or other governmental restrictions. However, state attorneys general, regulators, and other law enforcement officials may interpret state gaming laws, federal statutes, constitutional principles, and doctrines, and the related regulations in a different manner than we do. In the past, certain state attorneys general and other law enforcement officials have expressed concern over the legality of interstate advance deposit wagering. In December 2000, legislation was enacted in the United States that amends the IHA. We believe that this amendment clarifies that inter-track simulcast wagering, off-track betting and advance deposit wagering, as currently conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry, are authorized under U.S. federal law. The amendment may not be interpreted in this manner by all concerned, however, and there may be challenges to these activities by both state and federal law enforcement authorities, which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the licenses we hold to conduct horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering in the United States. Our expansion opportunities with respect to advance deposit wagering may be limited unless more states amend their laws or regulations to permit advance deposit wagering. Conversely, if states take affirmative action to make advance deposit wagering expressly unlawful, this could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the regulatory and legislative processes can be lengthy, costly and uncertain. We may not be successful in lobbying state legislatures or regulatory bodies to obtain or renew required legislation, licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary to facilitate the operation or expansion of our ADW business. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation that would either inhibit or restrict Internet gambling in general or inhibit or restrict the use of certain financial instruments, including credit cards, to provide funds for advance deposit wagering. On October 13, 2006, President Bush signed into law UIGEA. This act prohibits those involved in the business of betting or wagering from accepting any financial instrument, electronic or otherwise, for deposit that is intended to be utilized for unlawful Internet gambling. This act declares that nothing in the act may be construed to prohibit any activity allowed by the IHA. This act also contains a “Sense of Congress,” which explicitly states that it is not intended to criminalize any activity currently permitted by federal law. The Secretary of the Treasury was directed to promulgate regulations to enforce the provisions of this act within 270 days. The Secretary was further directed to ensure the regulations do not prohibit any activity which is excluded from the definition of unlawful Internet gambling, including those activities legal under the IHA. On October 1, 2007, the Treasury Department published proposed rules and regulations that require U.S. financial firms participating in designated payment systems to have policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent payments being 22 Table of Contents made to gambling businesses in connection with “unlawful internet gambling.” Activities permitted under IHA are specifically excluded from the definition of “unlawful Internet gambling.” Comments on the proposed rules were filed by numerous parties through December 12, 2007. Representatives of the horse racing industry encouraged regulations to mirror statutory language protecting activities under the IHA. Additionally, language was proposed requiring financial service providers to create a separate merchant code for activities under the IHA. Some financial service providers may be reluctant to process transactions related to advance deposit wagering. Furthermore, many states have considered and are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations, which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, and enforcement policies that could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to the success of our advance deposit wagering operation. We believe that the prospect of raising significant additional revenue through taxes and fees is one of the primary reasons that certain jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to the normal federal, state, provincial and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees may be increased at any time. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or changes to the administration of such laws, that affect the gaming industry. For instance, U.S. legislators have proposed the imposition of a U.S. federal tax on gross gaming revenues. In addition, the Kentucky General Assembly is currently considering several proposed bills that would increase pari-mutuel taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of any such changes in tax laws or their administration; however, if enacted, such changes could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Experience Resistance to Certain of Our Business Strategies We have entered into a reciprocal content swap agreement with MEC to exchange our respective horseracing signals with each other. MEC and the Company have also formed a venture, TrackNet, which serves as agent to MEC and the Company to sell our wagering and video rights to third parties, including racetracks, OTBs, casinos and other ADW providers. TrackNet also acts as agent to MEC and the Company to purchase horseracing wagering and video rights from third parties to make available through our respective outlets including our ADW platform. Other industry participants may not agree to sell and decline to purchase our wagering and video rights from the venture and/or to sell their wagering and video rights to us through the venture. This resistance may reduce the distribution of our wagering and video rights and/or our ability to purchase wagering and video rights for our outlets, including our ADW platform, potentially having a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the event that TVG, a major competitor of TwinSpires.com, is able to sign other horseracing wagering and video rights owners to exclusive agreements as has been its past business practices, those wagering and video rights owners will not be able to make available their wagering and video rights to TwinSpires.com through TrackNet, which could, in turn, negatively impact our ability to retain and attract customers. TVG was recently acquired by Betfair Group, Ltd., an e-gaming betting platform based in Great Britain. The effect of this acquisition on our business is not known at this time. We also own a fifty percent interest in a venture that owns and operates a horseracing television channel, HRTV. HRTV serves as our primary distribution channel to homes that rely on certain cable or satellite services for television delivery of horse races. This investment has historically generated operating losses, and we expect that to continue. In addition, HRTV may be unable to negotiate new distribution agreements with cable companies and/or satellite companies, resulting in a reduction in distribution. In addition, our customers may not subscribe to the services needed to access our horse races or may be confused about where to view our horse races. Any of these risks could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We May Not be Able to Attract Quality Horses and Trainers To provide high quality horse racing, we must attract the country’s top horses and trainers. Our success in attracting the top horses and trainers largely depends on the overall horse population available for racing and our ability to offer and fund competitive purses. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases such as the neurologic form of Equine Herpes Virus—I and Strangles, which is caused by the organism streptococcus equine. If any of our racetracks is faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, or if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our racetracks by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, well-maintained racetracks, better conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our racetracks and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could decrease. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to operate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenues for race purses and capital improvements. Any decline in the number of suitable race horses could make it more difficult for us to top horses and trainers. This, in turn, could force us to decrease the size of our purses or other benefits we offer, to conduct fewer races or to accept horses of a lower quality. We Experience Significant Seasonal Fluctuations in Operating Results We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results due to seasonality and other factors. We have a limited number of live racing days at our racetracks, and the number of live racing days varies from year to year. The number of live racing days we can offer directly affects our results of operations. A significant decrease in the number of live racing days and/or live races could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our live racing schedule dictates that we earn a substantial portion of our net earnings in the second quarter of each year when the Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks races are run during the first weekend in May. Business interruption, such as weather conditions, could affect our ability to conduct our most popular races. Any adverse impact on our races, including the Kentucky Derby, the Kentucky Oaks and key races at our other racetracks could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Business Depends on Providers of Totalisator Services In purchasing and selling our pari-mutuel wagering products, our customers depend on information provided by United Tote Company and AmTote International, Inc. These totalisator companies provide the computer systems that accumulate wagers, record sales, calculate payoffs and display wagering data in a secure manner. There are only three major vendors that provide this service in North America. The loss of any one of these vendors as a provider of this critical service would decrease competition and could result in an increase in the cost to obtain these services. Because of the highly specialized nature of these services, replicating these totalisator services would be expensive and could result in a disruption of service. One vendor, Amtote, is owned by MEC. Amtote provides totalisator services to Arlington Park, Calder, Fair Grounds and TwinSpires. MEC has stated its ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt. In addition, we rely upon the totalisator companies’ computer systems to ensure the integrity of our wagering process. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. The failure of totalisator companies to keep their technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively or develop new forms of wagering and/or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product. We May be Held Responsible for Contamination, Even if We Did Not Cause the Contamination Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. In addition, environmental laws and 24 Table of Contents regulations could hold us responsible for the cost of cleaning up hazardous materials contaminating real property that we own or operate (or previously owned or operated) or properties at which we have disposed of hazardous materials, even if we did not cause the contamination. If we fail to comply with environmental laws or if contamination is discovered, a court or government agency could impose severe penalties or restrictions on our operations or assess us with the costs of taking remedial actions. Inclement Weather and Other Conditions May Affect Our Ability to Conduct Live Racing Since horseracing, festivals and certain other entertainment events are conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause events to be cancelled and/or wagering to suffer. If a business interruption were to occur and continue for a significant length of time, at any of our racetracks, it could materially, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. During 2005, we sustained disruption to our operations at Calder in Florida, Fair Grounds and our OTB locations in Louisiana due to the damage caused by hurricanes. Any flood or other severe weather condition that could lead to the loss of use of our other facilities for an extended period could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not be Able to Complete Acquisition or Expansion Projects on Time, on Budget or as Planned We expect to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for development, including acquisitions or other strategic corporate transactions which may expand our business operations. We could face challenges in identifying development projects that fit our strategic objectives, identifying potential acquisition candidates and/or development partners, negotiating projects on acceptable terms, and managing and integrating the acquisition or development projects. The integration of new operations and any other properties we may acquire or develop will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating new projects or acquired businesses may also interrupt the activities of those businesses or our pre-existing businesses, which could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that any new projects or acquired businesses will be completed or integrated successfully. Management of new properties or business operations, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. We cannot assure that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or developments. We Depend on Agreements with Our Horsemen The IHA, as well as various state racing laws, require that we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks in order to simulcast races, and, in some cases, conduct live racing. Certain industry groups negotiate these agreements on behalf of the horsemen (the “Horsemen’s Groups”). These agreements provide that we must receive the consent of the Horsemen’s Groups at the racetrack conducting live races before we may allow third parties to accept wagers on those races. In addition, the agreements between other racetracks and their Horsemen’s Groups typically provide that those racetracks must receive consent from the Horsemen’s Groups before we can accept wagers on their races. For example, the Thoroughbred Owners of California, the Horsemen’s Group representing horsemen in California, is currently withholding its consent for Santa Anita to send its racing signal to Churchill Downs for import wagering. Further, the IHA and various state laws, require that we have written agreements with Horsemen’s Groups at our racetracks in order to simulcast races on an export basis. If we fail to maintain these agreements, then we may not be permitted to simulcast races on an export basis. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are generally subject to the consent of these Horsemen’s 25 Table of Contents Groups. Failure to receive the consent of these Horsemen’s Groups for new and renewing simulcast agreements could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have written agreements with the Horsemen’s Groups with regards to the proceeds of gaming machines in Louisiana and Florida. Florida law requires Calder to have an agreement with the Florida Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association, Inc. (the “FHBPA”), governing the contribution of a portion of revenues from slot machine gaming to purses on live thoroughbred races conducted at Calder and an agreement with the Florida Thoroughbred Breeders and Owners Association (“FTBOA”) governing the contribution of a portion of revenues from slot machines gaming to breeders’, stallion, and special racing awards on live thoroughbred races conducted at Calder before Calder can receive a license to conduct slot machine gaming. We have entered into the Calder Slots Agreement with the FHBPA and reached an agreement with the FTBOA for the sharing of slot revenue at Calder. The Company’s business was negatively impacted as a result of certain Horsemen’s Groups refusing to give required consents during 2008. The FHBPA, the Kentucky Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association, Inc. (the “KHBPA”) and the Kentucky Thoroughbred Association, Inc. (the “KTA”) withheld their consent under the IHA for the exporting of racing signals from Churchill Downs and Calder to national ADW businesses, including TwinSpires, during most of 2008. Kentucky Horsemen’s Groups did consent to the export of racing signals of the Kentucky Oaks, Kentucky Derby and Woodford Reserve Classic races on May 2 and May 3, 2008 to ADW businesses. Calder was precluded from exporting racing signals to any ADW business except for New York Racing Association’s ADW business, which operates on a limited basis outside the State of New York. In addition, for the spring meet (April 26, 2008 through July 6, 2008) and the fall meet (October 26 through November 29, 2008), no export of racing signals was made from Churchill Downs to any ADW business. On December 22, 2008, the FHBPA granted consent to Calder to export its racing signal to most ADW businesses through January 2, 2010. On December 31, 2008, the KHBPA and the KTA gave their consent to the export of Churchill Downs’ racing signals to ADW businesses, including TwinSpires for its 2009 spring racing meet (April 25 through July 5, 2009). However, we cannot predict whether the KHBPA and the KTA will provide consent beyond the spring racing meet of Churchill Downs. During the pendency of the dispute with the Horsemen’s Groups, the Company experienced generalized decreases in live attendance at its racetracks and reduced traffic on TwinSpires due to the more limited racing content and wagering opportunities available to customers. On April 22, 2008, the Company announced that it was reducing overnight purses at Calder by 30%, effective April 27, 2008. On May 9, 2008, the Company announced that it was reducing overnight purses at Churchill Downs by 20%, effective May 14, 2008 and reducing purses for eight stakes races, including six races in its Summit of Speed card at Calder. On August 29, 2008, the Company announced that it was reducing Churchill Downs fall 2008 racing meet stakes schedule by $975,000. On November 11, 2008, the Company announced that it was reducing Churchill Downs fall 2008 racing meet’s overnight schedule by 10% and stakes races by an additional $150,000. Such reductions negatively impact the Company’s ability to continue to attract high quality thoroughbreds to its racetracks. The Louisiana HBPA gave its consent for Fair Grounds to export its racing signal to national ADW businesses for its racing meet, which commenced on November 14, 2008 and continues through March 29, 2009. Arlington Park does not currently have the consent of the Illinois Thoroughbred Association, its horsemen’s group, to simulcast its races on an export basis. We cannot predict whether Arlington Park will receive the consent. Its upcoming meet is from May 1, 2009 through September 27, 2009. It is not certain that we will be able to maintain agreements with, or to obtain required consent from, our Horsemen’s Groups. The failure to maintain agreements with, or obtain consents from, our horsemen on satisfactory terms or the refusal by a Horsemen’s Group to consent to third parties accepting wagers on our races or our accepting wagers on third parties’ races could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on Agreements with Other Constituents in the Industry Various state laws require that an ADW business, like TwinSpires, must have an agreement in place with a racetrack located in a state before it can accept wagers from residents of that state. For example, California law 26 Table of Contents requires that an ADW business must have an agreement with a racetrack in California as a condition to accepting wagers from residents of California. Virginia law requires an ADW business to have an agreement with the racetrack and horsemen in Virginia as a condition to accepting wagers from residents of Virginia. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into agreements on acceptable terms in those states where such agreements are required. Failure to enter into such agreements could preclude TwinSpires from accepting wagers from residents of those states, and could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on Key Personnel We are highly dependent on the services of Robert L. Evans, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our management team. Our inability to retain key personnel could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not be Able to Adequately Insure Our Properties The significant damage and resulting insurance claims caused by (i) Hurricane Katrina to the New Orleans, Louisiana area and our Fair Grounds facility and OTBs; and (ii) Hurricane Wilma to South Florida and our Calder facility has increased the costs of obtaining property coverage for our facilities and significantly impacted our ability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at our facilities. Our inability to obtain and maintain adequate property coverage at reasonable prices could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Experience Difficulty in Integrating Recent or Future Acquisitions into Our Operations On June 11, 2007, we acquired through two separate acquisitions certain of the assets and businesses of ATAB and BRIS. These transactions resulted in our acquiring an ADW business and two data services operations which produces handicapping and pedigree reports sold to participants in the horse racing industry, including horseplayers and racing-related publications. We may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. The successful integration of newly acquired businesses into our operations will require the expenditure of substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources and may also lead to a diversion of our attention from our ongoing business concerns. We may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or realize projected revenue gains, cost savings and synergies in connection with those acquisitions on the timetable contemplated, if at all. Furthermore, the costs of integrating businesses we acquire could significantly impact our short-term operating results. These costs could include: • restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions; • non-recurring acquisition costs, including accounting and legal fees, investment banking fees and recognition of transaction-related costs or liabilities; and • costs of imposing financial and management controls (such as compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and operating, administrative and information systems. Although we perform financial, operational and legal diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses and our ability to continue to operate them successfully and integrate them into our existing operations. In any acquisition we make, we face risks which include: • the risk that the acquired business may not further our business strategy or that we paid more than the business was worth; • the potential adverse impact on our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products; 27 Table of Contents • the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; • costs and complications in maintaining required regulatory approvals or obtaining further regulatory approvals necessary to implement the acquisition in accordance with our strategy; • the risks of acquiring businesses and/or entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees or customers; • the possibility that we may be unable to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses; and • changes to legal and regulatory guidelines, which may negatively affect acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Any Infringement by Us on Intellectual Property Rights of Others Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations or Result in Litigation In the course of our business, we become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Many of our competitors as well as other companies and individuals have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents or other intellectual property rights that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we currently offer or may plan to offer in the future. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of our products and services. Our results may be affected by the outcome of litigation within our industry and the protection and validity of our intellectual property rights. For example, on May 17, 2007, ODS Technologies, L.P., d/b/a TVG Network filed a patent infringement lawsuit related to account wagering platforms against MEC and Xpressbet, Inc. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation surrounding it has the effect of increasing the risks associated with certain of our product offerings, particularly in the area of advance deposit wagering. There can be no assurance that we would not become a party to litigation surrounding our ADW business or that such litigation would not cause us to suffer losses or disruption in our business strategy. Other Risks Many other risks beyond our control could seriously disrupt our operations, including: • the effect (including possible increases in the cost of doing business) resulting from future war and terrorist activities or political uncertainties; • the impact of interest rate fluctuations and systemic risk in the banking and financial services industries; • the financial performance of our racing operations; • costs associated with our efforts in support of gaming initiatives; and • costs associated with Corporate initiatives. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 