ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. We consider the factors described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements," as we discuss under the heading "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize the benefits of the merger with Hego because of integration difficulties. It may not be possible to realize the full benefits that we anticipated will result from the May 2013 merger with Hego. Integrating the operations of Hego successfully or otherwise realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the transaction with Hego, including anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of challenges. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our results of operations and the market price of our common stock may decline as a result. Realizing the benefits of the transaction will depend in part on the integration of information technology, operations, personnel and sales forces. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: · our inability to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated in the transaction, which would prevent us from achieving the positive earnings gains expected as a result of the transaction; 12 · diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; · difficulties in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; · complexities in managing a significantly larger company than before the completion of the transaction; · complexities associated with managing the combined businesses and consolidating multiple physical locations where management may determine consolidation is desirable; · difficulties in the assimilation of Hego employees and the integration of two business cultures; · challenges in combining product offerings and sales and marketing activities; · challenges in demonstrating to our customers and to customers of Hego that the transaction will not result in adverse changes in customer service standards or business focus; and · possible cash flow interruption or loss of revenue as a result of change of ownership transitional matters. We may not successfully integrate the operations of the businesses of Hego in a timely manner, and we may not realize the anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies of the transaction of Hego to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. As a non-public, non-U.S. company, Hego did not have to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for internal control and other procedures. Bringing Hego's systems into compliance with those requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional expense. In addition, the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Current and future economic conditions may adversely affect our business and customers. The United States and other countries in which we operate continue to struggle to emerge from economic recessions. This could adversely affect overall spending on technology and services and reduce demand or delay payments for our products and services. The continuing unfavorable economic environment may also cause our customers to have difficulty obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and our customers may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. Further, we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the weakened economic conditions and such conditions could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Our revenues may fluctuate from period to period and therefore may fail to meet expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. In addition, our revenues may not follow any past trends. Our financial results depend on many factors and may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons. A variety of factors could cause our revenues to fluctuate, including decreased capital spending by our customers, the financial health of our customers, changes in customer demand for our products, changes in our product mix, the need for continual, rapid new product introductions, our degree of success in executing our strategy to develop and market web-based content creation solutions, quality and market acceptance of new products and services, competitive pricing pressures, the cyclical nature of the broadcast industry and other markets in which our products and services are sold, and economic conditions affecting our customers and us. Any failure to meet expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully continue to develop, introduce and sell new products and services, then we may be unable to compete effectively in the future. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce and successfully market our workflow and order management system, other new products employing the latest technologies, our production and timing and data services, and development services for custom high performance solutions that meet the rapidly evolving requirements of our customers. Our success increasingly depends on the ability to cement our position in new segments of the broadcast market. If any of the following occur, then our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed: · we fail to complete and introduce new product designs and services in a timely manner; · we are unable to have these new products manufactured or developed according to design specifications; · our customers do not perceive value in our new offerings and demand deep discounts; · we do not open the appropriate marketing/sales channels for our products and services; · our sales channels do not create adequate demand for our products and services; or · market demand for our new products and services does not develop as anticipated. If we are unable to keep up with rapid change in our industry, our business may suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and changes in workflow by our customers, our customers' other vendors and our competitors. Due to technological advancements and changes in industry standards, our products may become obsolete or the prices at which we can sell them may decline. Future technological advances in the television, video and multimedia industries may result in the availability of new products or services that could compete with our products or require us to reduce the price of our existing products or services. The availability of competing or less expensive products could cause our 14 existing or potential customers to fulfill their needs more effectively and cost-efficiently with products other than ours. We may not be successful in enhancing our products and services or in developing, manufacturing or marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by either our competitors or us may cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing products or services. In addition, it is possible that errors or failures may be found in our products. Such errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our sales and our competitive position and could increase warranty claims. This could result in an increase in the inventory of our products. If we do not develop, on a timely basis, new products and enhancements to existing products, or correct errors should they arise, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, then our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Furthermore, the trend toward the use of software-based and web-based solutions, including our own hosted services, may cause price erosion in our legacy products, create opportunities for new competitors, allow existing competitors enhanced opportunities and limit the sale of our proprietary systems. We expend substantial resources in developing and selling our products and services, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue as a result of these efforts. To establish market acceptance of our products and services, we must dedicate significant resources to research and development, production, and sales and marketing. We experience a delay between the time when we expend these resources and the time when we begin to generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. We record as expenses the costs related to the development of new products as these expenses are incurred. As a result, our profitability from quarter to quarter and from year to year may be materially and adversely affected by the number and timing of sales of our existing products and our new product introductions in any period, and the level of acceptance gained by these products. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by impairments of goodwill or other long-lived assets and intangible assets. We recorded $27.9 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Although our latest tests indicate that no goodwill impairment is currently required, future deterioration in market conditions could lead to goodwill impairments that could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 15 We have incurred net losses in recently completed fiscal years and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods. The losses that we have incurred in recently completed fiscal years, among other things, adversely affect our shareholders' equity and working capital. These losses, and the principal factors or components underlying them, are discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will be profitable or, if we become profitable whether profitability can be sustained. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products and services that incorporate these technologies and standards. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop products and services around an emerging technology or industry standard. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, then we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, then our products may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. If systems manufacturers move away from the use of industry standards that we support with our products and adopt alternative standards, then we may be unable to design and develop new products that conform to these new standards. The expertise required is unique to each industry standard, and we would be required to either hire individuals with the requisite expertise or acquire this expertise through a licensing arrangement or by other means. The demand for individuals with the necessary expertise to develop a product relating to a particular industry standard is generally high, and we may not be able to hire such individuals. The cost to acquire this expertise through licensing or other means may be high and such arrangements may not be possible in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Since most of our systems are Microsoft® Windows®-based, we are vulnerable to issues that arise, both anticipated and unanticipated, whenever a current version of Windows is updated or a new version of Windows is released. When a Windows update is released, Lyric, other ChyronHego applications and/or the graphics systems of our customers may fail to function correctly or at all. Consequently, we incur expenditures conducting an investigation and subsequently, devising a solution. This can be a time- and capital-consuming process. When a new version of Windows is released, we are forced, against our schedule, to rigorously test all of our software and systems using the new version, investigate malfunctions and re-engineer our software where necessary. This financial and labor expenditure is required in order for us to have the ability to officially represent our software and systems as supporting a specific version of Windows. Our revenues and our market share will decline if we do not continue to develop and exploit the compatibility of our products with Windows. Most of our systems ship with Windows 7 or Windows server versions that are currently supported with no end of life timelines. 16 Windows 8, has not yet been validated with our proprietary systems, although it can be used with selected offline software and hosted applications Because we rely on the implementation of our software and services in Windows and other operating systems, we are exposed to the vagaries of individual systems or installations in which hardware and/or software may interfere with the operation of our software and systems, or be interfered with by our software and/or systems, and our systems may face exposure to computer viruses. For example, because our Axis World Graphics applications are accessed via an Internet web browser, we are required to test Axis within multiple web browsers including Internet Explorer® and Safari® running on both current and legacy Windows and Apple® operating systems. We may spend a significant amount of time and resources ensuring that Axis functions properly on a wide range of systems and within the various operating systems and browsers, and making necessary revisions to Axis to enable compatibility with new versions of these systems. Commissioning our systems, software and services in these situations can consume time and resources beyond original estimates and consequently reduce our profit margins. If we are unable to continue offering our products on the latest versions of these browsers and operating systems, then we will not be able to generate sales of these products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. We may not successfully develop strategic relationships that may be important to our business. We believe the formation of strategic relationships will be important to our broadcast offerings. The inability to find strategic partners or the failure of any existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results for us could harm our business. We rely in part on strategic relationships to help us: · maximize visibility and adoption of our products and services through distribution arrangements; · enhance our brand; · expand the range of commercial activities based on our technology; and · increase the performance, functionality and utility of our products and services. Many of these goals have historically been beyond our traditional strengths. Going forward, we anticipate that we may become more reliant on strategic partners to provide multimedia content and build the necessary infrastructure for media delivery. In addition, the efforts of our strategic partners may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, these strategic relationships may be terminated before we realize any benefit. We operate in a highly competitive environment and industry and we may lack the resources needed to capture increased market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The markets for digital and broadcast graphics products and services are highly competitive. These markets are characterized by constant technological change and evolving industry standards. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. In addition, certain vendors dominate certain product 17 categories and market segments, on a region-by-region basis, in which we currently operate or may wish to operate in the future. As a result, our ability to compete and operate in these areas may be limited. We believe that our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the success and timing of new product and service offerings introduced by us and by our competitors, product performance and price, market presence and customer support. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to these factors. Maintaining any advantage that we may have, now or in the future, over our competitors will require our continuing investments in research and development, acquisition and retention of highly skilled personnel, competitive analyses, sales and marketing and customer service and support. In addition, as we enter new markets, we may encounter distribution channels, technical requirements and competitive factors that differ from those in the markets in which we currently operate. We may not be able to compete successfully in these new markets. Increased competition in any of our current markets could also result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. If shortages persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build our products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. In addition, certain of our key components are purchased from a limited number of suppliers. The development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. Furthermore, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from our suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be impacted by new regulations related to conflict minerals. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules establishing disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of certain minerals referred to as "conflict minerals" in products. These new rules will require us to determine, disclose and report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. In addition, these new rules could affect our ability to source certain materials used in our hardware products at competitive prices and could impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our hardware products. Our customers may require that our hardware products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict- 18 free minerals at a reasonable price. We also expect that there may be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to our hardware products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such disclosure and reporting requirements. Our business will suffer if our network systems fail or become unavailable or if security breaches and other disruptions compromise our information. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers and on our networks, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees. A reduction in the performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure would harm our ability to distribute our products and services to our users, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain users and content providers. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems could also be subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct which could result in unintentional disclosure of proprietary, sensitive or confidential information. Such unauthorized access could expose us, our customers or the individuals to a risk of loss or misuse of information, resulting in litigation or potential liability for us. Although we offer redundant configurations for some of our systems and co-locations of our servers to protect our Axis World Graphics hosted services, we do not offer fully redundant configurations across the entire product line, nor do we have a formal disaster recovery plan. We might not carry adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Any system error or failure that causes interruption in availability of products or services or an increase in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing customers or content providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer sustained or repeated interruptions, then our products and services could be less attractive to our users and our business would be materially harmed. We depend upon third-party dealers to market and sell our products and services and they may discontinue sale of our products and services, fail to give our products and services priority or be unable to successfully market, sell and support our products and services. During 2013, 21% of our sales were made to third-party dealers and independent representatives. Although we have contracts with our dealers and representatives, any of them may terminate their relationship with us on short notice. The loss of one or more of our principal dealers, or our inability to attract new dealers, could materially harm our business. We may lose dealers in the future and we may be unable to recruit additional or replacement dealers. As a result, our future performance will depend in part on our ability to retain our existing dealers and representatives and attract new dealers and representatives who will be able to sell and support our products and services effectively. 19 Problems associated with international business operations could subject us to risks from financial, operational and political situations, and affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products and services. Sales to customers located outside the United States accounted for 47% of our total sales in 2013 and 33% of our total sales in 2012. The increased percentage is primarily a result of the merger with Hego, which, prior to the merger, derived 93% of its net sales in 2012 from sales of its products and services outside the United States. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales in future periods. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: · managing foreign dealers and foreign customers, which may be state corporations or government agencies; · differing local product preferences and product requirements; · difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; · differing legal regulations and labor relations; · political and economic instability; · trade protection measures, and timing and availability of import and export licenses; · changes in laws, regulations and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies (including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws (including potential taxes payable on earnings of foreign subsidiaries upon repatriation), tariffs, environmental directives, freight rates and governmental royalties); · inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; · longer collection cycles for accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts; · obtaining governmental approvals for certain products; and · technical standards which may differ and/or be more stringent that those of the United States, and would cause us to incur expenses associated with obtaining required certifications. In addition, we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. The majority of our foreign-generated revenues were generated in Europe. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team or continue to attract and retain qualified technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We depend on the members of our management team for our business success. The loss of any one member of our senior management team, including, in particular, Johan Apel, our 20 President and Chief Executive Officer, could result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the development and commercialization of our products, and could hinder the operation of our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Apel, which extends through May 23, 2016. The agreement may be terminated by us or Mr. Apel, with or without consent. Mr. Apel is employed on an at-will basis pursuant to the employment agreement. Mr. Apel may be entitled to severance payments under certain circumstances. Mr. Apel is subject to change-in-control provisions pursuant to the employment agreement. Three other members of our senior management team are subject to employment agreements that expire in 2014 or 2016. The loss of the services of Mr. Apel or any member of our senior management team may delay or prevent us from achieving our objectives. In addition, we believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and sales people. Most of our employees are at-will and only a few are subject to employment contracts. Hiring qualified sales and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Competition for these types of employees is high. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales and technical personnel necessary for the development of our business. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel, would materially harm our business. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and may be sued for infringing on the rights of others. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, because that is how we prevent others from copying innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Our success also depends, in part, upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We rely on a combination of methods to protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and body of knowledge, such as: · trade secret laws; · copyright law; · trademark law; · patent law; · contractual provisions; · confidentiality agreements; and · certain technology and security measures. Because it is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent and trade secret protection for our products where available and when we deem appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We also intend to continue to seek trademark status for our product/service brand names and 21 technologies, in order to prevent our competitors from co-opting these brand names for their own use. Existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. Moreover, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries and territories. Domestic and foreign laws, in combination with the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary rights. The steps we have taken regarding our proprietary technology may not be sufficient to deter misappropriation; for example, we have rights in trademarks, service marks and copyrights that are not registered. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties; however, employees may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, the copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws we rely upon to protect our intellectual property do not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar or superior to our products and technologies, or designing around the patents we own or the technology we create. In the systems and software industries, companies receive notices from time to time alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In the past we have been, and may from time to time continue to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Companies may pursue claims against us with respect to the alleged infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of infringement. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources from the day-to-day operation of our business. If a new law or regulation is adopted pertaining to the telecommunications and television industries, it could harm our customers' business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by U.S. federal or state or international governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward deregulation in these industries could cause our customers to suffer, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Television operators are subject to extensive government regulation by the FCC and other U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies. These regulations could limit capital expenditures by television operators and if that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The telecommunications and television industries are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries. Our business is dependent upon the continued growth of these industries in the United States and internationally. Recent legislation has lowered the legal barriers to entry for companies into the United States' multi-channel television market, but telecommunications companies may not successfully enter this or related markets. Moreover, the 22 growth of our business internationally is dependent in part on similar deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad and such deregulation may not occur. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain financing for our future needs, and liquidity issues have and may continue to increase our cost of capital. At December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $5.3 million and working capital of $1.2 million. We entered into a two-year credit facility with a U.S. bank in November 2013. The credit facility provides for a $4.0 million revolving line of credit with an advance rate of the lesser of $4.0 million or 80% of eligible accounts receivable, less the amount outstanding under the credit facility. We also have revolving credit facilities associated with our European operations that total $1.3 million, of which $0.9 million was outstanding at December 31, 2013. These revolving credit facilities have expiration dates of December 31, 2014 and automatically renew for twelve month periods unless notified by the lender ninety days prior to expiration. We believe that cash on hand, net cash expected to be generated in the business, and the amount available under our lines of credit, will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next twelve months if we are able to achieve our planned results of operations and retain the availability of credit under our credit facilities. However, we may need to raise additional funds in order to fund our business, expand our sales and marketing activities, develop or enhance new products and services, respond to competitive pressures and satisfy our existing and any new obligations that may arise. We could be in default under our U.S. credit facility with our bank if: (i) we fail to make payment of principal and interest when due; (ii) we fail to provide to our bank required financial statements, reports and certificates; fail to timely file all required tax returns and pay timely; fail to maintain required insurance policies at levels acceptable to the bank; fail to maintain our primary operating bank accounts with the bank; fail to meet our financial covenants; or fail to comply with the required negative covenants; (iii) we incur a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition; if there is a material impairment in the perfection or priority of the bank's lien on the collateral supporting the credit facility; if there is a material impairment of the prospect of repayment of our obligations to the bank; or the bank determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that we will fail to comply with one or more of our financial covenants in the succeeding financial reporting period; (iv) we become insolvent; (v) are issued a judgment for payment of $100,000 or more net of insurance recovery if any; and (vi) other events of default as described in our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, with our bank. In the event of default, the bank's remedies include any or all of the following: (i) declare all outstanding obligations to the bank, due and payable; (ii) stop advances or credit under the credit facility; (iii) require that we deposit cash in an amount of at least 105% of the dollar amount of any outstanding letters of credit; (iv) terminate any foreign exchange contracts; (v) dispose of collateral adequate to repay the bank any amounts owed to it; and (vi) take additional measures, as outlined in the Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, to protect the bank's interests. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Capital is critical to our business, and our ability to raise capital in the event that losses use our available cash would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Significant changes in discount rates, the actual return on pension assets and other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded related to our qualified pension plan. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") require that income or expense related to the pension plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial calculations, which reflect certain assumptions. The most significant of these assumptions relate to interest rates, the capital markets and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, as well as the actual value of pension assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect GAAP expense also affect the amount of cash that we will contribute to our pension plan. Because the values of these pension assets have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the pension plan and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholders have significant voting power and may vote for actions that may not be in the best interests of our shareholders. Our officers, directors, their affiliates and 5% or more shareholders, together control approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock (not including options or other convertible securities) as of February 28, 2014. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of: · delaying, deferring or preventing, or alternatively, accelerating or causing, a change in control of our company; · entrenching our management and/or Board of Directors; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. We increased the level of our insurance coverage following the completion of the merger with Hego; however, future claims could exceed our applicable insurance coverage. ChyronHego maintains insurance for property and general liability, directors' and officers' liability, products liability, workers compensation and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed adequate by management based on our expectations for future claims. Although we increased the level of our insurance coverage, particularly our directors' and officers' liability insurance, following the completion of the merger with Hego, future claims could exceed our 24 applicable insurance coverage, or in some instances our coverage may not cover the applicable claims. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies. Following the Hego merger, we continue to require significant working capital for operations and marketing and research and development activities as well as the expansion and integration of our operations. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a shareholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market our products that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. An increase in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding could reduce the price of our common stock. At December 31, 2013, there were 6.0 million potentially dilutive shares that would be issuable if all outstanding common stock options were exercised, plus an additional 1.4 million shares available for grant under our stock incentive plan. Issuance or sale of a substantial number of shares of additional common stock, or the perception that such issuance or sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock as it would result in additional shares of our common stock being available on the public market. These issuances or sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws, as amended, and New York corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. Shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: 25 · authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, issue shares of stock with voting, liquidation and other rights in preference to the rights of common shareholders and thwart a takeover attempt; · limiting who may call special meetings of our shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors, or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at shareholder meetings. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Market requirements and the NASDAQ Stock Market determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment, and harm our business. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. We have previously received notifications from NASDAQ informing us of certain listing deficiencies, including failure to satisfy the minimum bid price and the minimum stockholders' equity requirements. Although we have since cured these deficiencies, it is possible that we could fall out of compliance again in the future. If we fail to maintain compliance with any listing requirements, we could be delisted and our common stock would be considered a penny stock under regulations of the SEC and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our liquidity and operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, general conditions in the digital media industry, announcements of technological innovations or new products or services introduced by us or our competitors, and other events or factors. The stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. During the period commencing January 1, 2012, through February 28, 2014, the price of our common stock has ranged between $0.48 and $3.12. This volatility has had a substantial impact on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Subject to certain limitations, the former Hego shareholders may sell our common stock beginning on August 22, 2014, which could cause our stock price to decline. The shares of our common stock that the former Hego shareholders received following the merger are subject to certain transfer restrictions until August 22, 2014. The sale of a 26 substantial number of our shares by the former Hego and Hego Trac shareholders or our other stockholders within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decline, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock or acquire other businesses using our common stock as consideration. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 