ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors Affecting Future Results Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and therefore may fail to meet expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have varied widely in the past and may do so in the future. In addition, our operating results may not follow any past trends. Our future operating results will depend on many factors and may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons. Any failure to meet expectations could cause our stock price to significantly fluctuate or decline. 19 Factors that relate to our internal operations and could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: the need for continual, rapid new product introductions, changes in our product mix, our inability to adjust our fixed costs in the face of any declines in sales, successful execution of our strategy to develop and market products for the TV broadcasting markets, namely, character generators, graphics platforms, video clip and still stores, channel branding, telestration software, workflow solutions, media management, Chyron MOS newsroom integration, XMP-based interFuse solutions and the Online Division graphics solutions, successful execution of our strategy to further develop and market products for the graphics-on-demand/self-serve graphics market, including the AXIS Graphics products, successful maintenance and support of the preexisting AXIS Graphics customer base, successful execution of our strategy to further develop and market products for the digital signage market, including the ChyTV products, the quality and market acceptance of new products, and the timing and nature of selling and marketing expenses (such as trade shows, on-site demonstrations and other promotions) our inability to develop products and upgrades that keep pace with the customer demand for features and functionalities. Factors that depend upon our suppliers and customers and could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: the timing of significant product orders, order cancellations and reschedulings, the availability of production capacity and fluctuations in the manufacturing yields at the facilities to which we subcontract our critical components, our ability and that of our suppliers to continue certifying compliance with RoHS regulations, in effect since July 1, 2006 (affecting European Union sales only, but for all intents and purposes, applying to most or all of our products), the cost of raw materials and manufacturing services from our suppliers, and the financial stability of our suppliers and customers. Factors that are industry risks and could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: intense competitive pricing pressures, introductions of or enhancements to our competitors' products, the cyclical nature of the broadcast industry, economic conditions affecting our customers and us, including, but not limited to the declining value of the U.S. dollar, acceptance of our expanding workflow and asset management solutions, acceptance of our graphics-on-demand/self-serve AXIS Graphics solutions, and acceptance of our line of products that address the non-broadcast, digital signage market. 20 Our day-to-day business decisions are made with these factors in mind. Although certain of these factors are out of our immediate control, unless we can anticipate and be prepared with contingency plans that respond to these factors, we will be unsuccessful in carrying out our business plan. If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products, we may be unable to compete effectively in the future. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing Windows®-based, open platform products. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce and successfully market new products, including graphics systems and software that continues to replace our legacy products and older graphics systems. Our success also depends on the ability to cement our position in new segments of the broadcast market with our workflow and asset management, channel branding, Mobile Suite and AXIS Graphics product lines. To date, we have been selling our graphics systems/CG products, channel branding systems and clip servers in increasing quantities, due in part to the increasing implementation of HD by the broadcast facilities. We have also had success with our CAMIO Newsroom Integration and Asset Management products. We must continue to increase our sales or our business will suffer. If any of the following occur, our business will be ma terially harmed: we fail to complete and introduce new product designs in a timely manner, we are unable to have these new products manufactured according to design specifications, our customers do not perceive value in our new products and demand deep discounts, our sales force and independent distributors do not create adequate demand for our products, or market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated. If we are unable to keep up with rapid change in our industry, our business will not grow. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Due to technological advancements and changes in industry standards, our products may become obsolete or the prices at which we can sell them may decline. Future technological advances in the television and video industries may result in the availability of new products or services that could compete with our products or reduce the price of our existing products or services. The availability of competing or less expensive products could cause our existing or potential customers to fulfill their needs, more effectively and cost-efficiently, with products other than ours. For example, customers are, in many environments, using personal computers to edit graphics. This is a task that traditionally would have been completed on our lower-end standalone machines. We have answered this challenge with the development of offline versions of our graphics applications as partner products for our online graphics systems. These offline applications enable graphics creation on PCs for playout on Chyron systems. With the 21 acquisition of AXIS Graphics, we have also introduced an additional avenue for rapid creation of high-resolution, broadcast-quality graphics on offline systems. We may not be successful in enhancing our products or developing, manufacturing or marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by either our competitors or us may cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing products or services. In addition, it is possible that errors or failures may be found in our products. Such errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our competitive position. This could result in an increase in the inventory of our products. If we do not develop, on a timely basis, new products and enhancements to existing products, or correct errors should they arise, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, then our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Furthermore, the trend toward the use of open systems may cause price erosion in our products, create opportunities for new competitors, allow existing competitors enhanced opportunities and limit the sale of our proprietary systems. We expend substantial resources in developing and selling our products, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue as a result of these efforts. To establish market acceptance of our products, we must dedicate significant resources to research and development, production, and sales and marketing. We experience a delay between the time when we expend these resources and the time when we begin to generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. Typically, this delay is one year or more. We record as expenses the costs related to the development of new products as these expenses are incurred. As a result, our profitability from quarter to quarter and from year to year may be materially and adversely affected by the number and timing of our new product introductions in any period, and the level of acceptance gained by these products. If the digital video market does not grow quickly enough, we will be unable to increase our revenues. Our future growth and success in our existing business lines will depend to a significant degree on the rate at which broadcasters and cable operators convert to digital video systems, and the rate at which digital video technology expands to additional market segments. Television broadcasters and cable television operators have historically relied on and utilized traditional analog technology. Although the acceptance of digital technology has gained significant momentum, the move from traditional analog technology to digital video technology continues to require a significant expense for television broadcasters and cable television operators. Accordingly, the use of digital video technology may not expand as quickly as anticipated among mid-size and smaller television broadcasters and cable television operators or into additional markets. If television broadcasters and cable television operators do not accept and implement digital video technology, or if the ruling of the FCC mandating these changes is 22 repealed or amended, we may not be able to grow our existing business lines and our financial condition will suffer. If the workflow and asset management solutions and Mobile Suite products do not produce as expected, then there will be a negative impact on revenue and earnings. Chyron's investment in developing these new technologies has resulted in products that have shown great potential. As we are in relatively untested waters with the newest technologies, both from the standpoint of Chyron's traditional product line and the industry as a whole, there will be a process of maturation, in which some branches of development may lead to dead ends and require significant reconfiguration or cessation, and other branches which may prove immediately successful. In addition, as we move into producing workflow and asset management solutions to be installed in large facilities with complex requirements, we must ensure that the individual requirements of each customer implementing our solutions do not "invisibly" drain our resources in terms of time and manpower diverted to support. All of these factors could lead to an erosion of the profit realized by the sale of these products. If our digital signage products do not produce as expected, then there will be a negative impact on revenue and earnings. Chyron entered the digital signage market with its ChyTV display systems, catering to a non-broadcast market segment. Our entrance into this market was based on research results indicating that there is an increasing opportunity for these products among customers such as hospitals and medical offices, educational institutions, government facilities, retailers, corporations, independent and franchised restaurants/sports bars, car dealerships, etc. This technology is based on our existing, advanced video processing technology, which places the Company on firm ground with regard to the functionality of these types of products. Our success in this market has been growing, but we still must depend heavily on our A/V dealers to make new inroads. Digital signage products are typically sold at low-cost. Because the target market differs markedly from the broadcast market, the sales and marketing strategy for this product line cannot be modeled on the sales and marketing structure currently in place for our broadcast products. The planned distribution channels do not, in the short term, involve brick-and-mortar, catalogue or online retail. Except for a small segment of sales, they also do not involve our direct sales force, as it is not cost-effective to deploy Chyron sales personnel whose efforts must remain focused on high-revenue broadcast products. As we continue to partner with a network of professional A/V dealers, we may continue to be required to depend on an untested, fragmented pool of third-party dealers, and systems-integrators with varying commitment to ChyTV sales, who will likely be selling ChyTV as an ancillary product to a set of related or unrelated products and/or services. If these distribution channels do not pr oduce as anticipated, then growth and revenue will not meet expectations. 23 If our acquisition of AXIS Graphics does not produce as expected, then there will be a negative impact on revenue and earnings. AXIS Graphics has a proven track record and a firm customer base. Because we are entering a familiar (i.e., television broadcast) market on a new front as a web-based service provider, we may not be able to maintain adequate support, implement meaningful improvements and advances as expected, and/or properly market to new and existing customers. We may not be successful either in packaging AXIS Graphics as part of a complete Chyron solution, or in marketing AXIS Graphics to facilities that use our competitors' systems. If we cannot provide support, develop the product line and achieve market penetration, then the expected return on investment in AXIS Graphics will not be realized. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products that incorporate these technologies and standards. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop products around an emerging technology or industry standard. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, our products may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business would be materially harmed. If systems manufacturers move away from the use of industry standards that we support with our products and adopt alternative standards, we may be unable to design and develop new products that conform to these new standards. The expertise required is unique to each industry standard, and we would have to either hire individuals with the required expertise or acquire this expertise through a licensing arrangement or by other means. The demand for individuals with the necessary expertise to develop a product relating to a particular industry standard is generally high, and we may not be able to hire such individuals. The cost to acquire this expertise through licensing or other means may be high and such arrangements may not be possible in a timely manner, if at all. Since our systems have become Windows®-based, we have become vulnerable to issues which arise, both anticipated and unanticipated, whenever a current version of Windows® is updated or, a new version of Windows® is released. When a Windows® update is released, Lyric, other Chyron applications and/or the graphics systems may fail to function correctly or at all. Consequently, we incur expenditures conducting an investigation, and subsequently, devising a solution. This can be a time- and capital-consuming process. When a new version of Windows® is released, we are forced, against our schedule, to rigorously test all of our software and systems using the new version, investigate malfunctions, and re-engineer our software where necessary. This financial and labor expenditure is required in order for us to have the ability to officially represent our software and systems as supporting a specific version of Windows& reg;. Windows® issues, while diverting engineering and capital resources, have not been considered a major risk to our overall success. In addition, the same issues affect our competitors as well. We 24 would sacrifice market share, however, if we did not continue to develop and exploit the advantages of Windows® accessibility. The effect on Chyron of Windows® Vista, which was released in late 2006, has not yet been quantified. Support for Windows Vista may require significant rewrite of Lyric, Chyron MOS and other code. The expanded accessibility to Windows® code and availability of software development tools provided with Vista could possibly open the door to competitors which could potentially claim a portion of our business. The Windows® platform environment has enabled our systems and software to integrate into facilities in a manner which was previously extremely unwieldy or never before possible with our proprietary systems. Because we have moved into this environment however, we are now exposed to the vagaries of individual systems or installations in which hardware and/or software may interfere with the operation of our software and systems, or be interfered with by our software and/or systems, and our systems may face exposure to computer viruses. This risk is shared by our competitors as well. Commissioning our systems in these situations can consume time and resources beyond original estimates, and consequently, reduce our margins. We would sacrifice market share, however, if we did not continue to develop and exploit the advantages of these systems. We may not successfully develop strategic relationships that may be important to our business. We believe the formation of strategic relationships will be important to our broadcast and digital signage businesses. The inability to find strategic partners or the failure of any existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results for us could harm our business. We will rely in part on strategic relationships to help us: maximize visibility and adoption of our products through distribution arrangements, enhance our brand, expand the range of commercial activities based on our technology, and increase the performance, functionality and utility of our products and services. Many of these goals are beyond our traditional strengths. We anticipate that the efforts of our strategic partners will become more important as the use of open platform products become increasingly widespread; for example, we may become more reliant on strategic partners to provide multimedia content and build the necessary infrastructure for media delivery. In addition, the efforts of our strategic partners may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, these strategic relationships may be terminated before we realize any benefit. We operate in a highly competitive environment and industry and we may lack resources needed to capture increased market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The markets for graphics imaging and editing products are competitive. These markets are characterized by constant technological change and evolving industry standards. The majority of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing 25 resources than we have. In addition, certain vendors dominate certain product categories and market segments, on a region-by-region basis, in which we currently operate or may wish to operate in the future. As a result, our ability to compete and operate in these areas may be limited. We anticipate increased competition from companies with which we currently compete and from companies that may enter our industry. We believe our primary competitors are Vizrt Ltd., Harris Corporation's Inscriber subsidiary, Miranda's Vertigo systems, Pixel Power, and Avid Technology, Inc. and its Pinnacle Systems subsidiary. We believe that our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the success and timing of new product developments introduced by us and by our competitors, product performance and price, market presence and customer support. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to these factors. Maintaining any advantage that we may have, now or in the future, over our competitors will require our continuing investments in research and development, competitive analyses, sales and marketing and customer service and support. In addition, as we enter new markets, we may encounter distribution channels, technical requirements and competitive factors that differ from those in the markets in which we currently operate. We may not be able to compete successfully in these new markets. Increased competition in any of our current markets could also result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter periods of industry-wide, surface-mount components shortage, resulting in pricing pressure and a risk that we could be unable to fulfill our customers' requirements. The semiconductor industry (from which surface-mount components are derived) has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, its products, which feed the electronics, telecommunications and computer markets. These fluctuations have resulted in circumstances when supply and demand for the industry's products have been widely out of balance. Our operating results may be materially harmed by industry-wide surface mount component shortage, which could result in severe pricing pressure. In a market with undersupply, we would have to compete with the larger customers of our vendors for limited manufacturing capacity. In such an environment, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a timely manner or in quantities necessary to meet our requirements. Since we outsource a large proportion of our products, we are particularly vulnerable to such supply shortages. As a result, we may be unable to fulfill orders and may lose customers. Any future, industry-wide shortage of surface-mount components or manufacturing capacity would materially harm our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of surface-mount components. We depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce surface-mount components for our products. Our principal suppliers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their ability to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Introducing new surface-mount components or transferring existing design and 26 specifications to a new third-party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our components may increase if we are required to use a new third-party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business would be materially harmed. We depend on the availability of specific off-the-shelf components. If the supply of specific off-the-shelf components terminates due to either market demand or by choice of the manufacturer, then production, and therefore, revenue, could be negatively impacted. In addition, resources must be diverted to locate a replacement component, which must then be rigorously tested and qualified. If we fail to have the ability to seamlessly switch from a non-available component to a replacement, then our business would be materially harmed. We may be unable to grow our business if the markets in which we sell our products do not grow. Our success depends in large part on the continued growth of various markets that use our products. Any decline in the demand for our products in the following markets could materially harm our business: broadcasting infrastructure projects, video/audio, graphics and imaging, online (web) video/audio, graphics and imaging, advertising, corporate/institutional customers, or military and security systems. Slower growth in any of the other markets in which our products are sold may also materially harm our business. Many of these markets are characterized by rapid technological change and intense competition. As a result, our products may face severe price competition, become obsolete over a short time period, or fail to gain market acceptance. In addition, customers may require replacements and upgrades of equipment rather than the purchase of new, more expensive products. Any of these occurrences would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will suffer if our systems fail or become unavailable. A reduction in the performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure would harm our ability to distribute our products and services to our users, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain funding, users and content providers. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems are also subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of physical terrorism, intentional acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct. We offer redundant configurations of selected systems 27 and additional redundant configurations are under development, but we do not offer fully redundant configurations across the entire product line, nor do we have a formal disaster recovery plan. We might not carry adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Any system error or failure that causes interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing customers or content providers and declines in stock values. If we suffer sustained or repeated interruptions, our products and services could be less attractive to our users and our business would be harmed. We depend upon third-party dealers to market and sell our products and they may discontinue sale of our products, fail to give our products priority or be unable to successfully market, sell and support our products. We employ independent, third-party dealers to market and sell a significant portion of our products. During 2007, 26% of our sales were made through our dealers and independent representatives. Although we have contracts with our dealers and representatives, any of them may terminate their relationship with us on short notice. The loss of one or more of our principal dealers, or our inability to attract new dealers, could materially harm our business. We may lose dealers in the future and we may be unable to recruit additional or replacement dealers. As a result, our future performance will depend in part on our ability to retain our existing dealers and representatives and attract new dealers and representatives who will be able to market, sell and support our products effectively. Problems associated with international business operations could subject us to risks from financial, operational and political situations, and affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. Sales to customers located outside the United States accounted for 26% of our total sales in 2007 and 21% of our total sales in each of 2006 and 2005. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales in future periods. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: managing foreign dealers and foreign customers, which may be state corporations or government agencies, staffing and managing foreign branch offices, political and economic instability, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, changes in tax laws, tariffs, environmental directives, freight rates and governmental royalties, timing and availability of export licenses, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, obtaining governmental approvals for certain products, and technical standards which may differ and/or be more stringent that those of the U.S., and would cause us to incur expenses associated with obtaining required certifications. 28 In 2007, we denominated sales of our products in foreign countries exclusively in U.S. dollars, British Pounds Sterling and Euros. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of a foreign country will increase the price of our products in that country so that our products become more expensive to customers in the local currency of that foreign country. As a result, sales of our products in that foreign country may decline. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business would be materially harmed. We may be unable to accurately predict quarterly results which could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. We build up our sales projections from information obtained by the sales force and our dealers. Furthermore, in certain large contracts, there are acceptance and/or commissioning conditions. It is possible that our products are delivered but are not paid for, because acceptance and/or commissioning have not taken place to the satisfaction of the customer. We would not be able to recognize the revenue until the customer has accepted and/or commissioned the products. Any deviation or inaccuracy in these above factors could affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations. As a result, our stock price could materially fluctuate. We may be unable to successfully grow our business if we fail to compete effectively with others to attract and retain key personnel. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and sales people. Most of our employees are at-will and only a few are subject to employment contracts. Hiring qualified sales and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Competition for these types of employees is high. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales and technical personnel necessary for the development of our business. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel, would materially harm our business. We are also highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals may delay or prevent us from achieving our objectives. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and may be sued for infringing on the rights of others. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we keep others from copying innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Our success also depends, in part, upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We rely on a combination of methods to protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and know-how, such as: trade secret laws, copyright law, trademark law, 29 patent law, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, and certain technology and security measures. Because it is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent and trade secret protection for our products. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. The steps we have taken regarding our proprietary technology, however, may not be sufficient to deter misappropriation; for example, we have rights in trademarks, service marks and copyrights that are not registered. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, sold or otherwise distributed do not protect our products and intellectual rights to the extent of the laws of the U.S. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties; however, employees may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In any event, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In the systems and software industries, companies receive notices from time to time alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In the past we have been, and may from time to time continue to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. Companies may pursue claims against us with respect to the alleged infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of invalidity. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. Moreover, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries and territories. Domestic and foreign laws, in combination with the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary rights. Also, these protections do not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar or superior to our products and technologies, or designing around the patents we own or the technology we create. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our proprietary rights, or to protect trade secrets and this could result in substantial cost, and a diversion of resources away from the day-to-day operation of our business. 30 We are uncertain of our ability to obtain financing for our future needs, and liquidity issues have and may continue to increase our cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $6.3 million and working capital of $8.4 million. The Company has a $1.5 million working capital line of credit from a U.S. bank which extends through April 13, 2008. The Company has the ability to borrow on a revolving credit basis based on levels of eligible accounts receivable. We believe that cash on hand, net cash expected to be generated in the business, and availability under our line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our needs if we are able to achieve our planned results of operations. However, we may need to raise additional funds in order to fund our business, expand our sales and marketing activities, develop or enhance new products, respond to competitive pressures and satisfy our existing and any new obligations that may arise. If we fail to meet our financial covenants under our line of credit agreement, our bank could choose to not lend to us. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Capital is critical to our business, and our ability to raise capital in the event that losses use our available cash would have a material adverse effect on our business. If a new law or regulation is created pertaining to the telecommunications and television industries, it could cause our customers to suffer and impede our ability to increase profits. The enactment by U.S. federal or state or international governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward deregulation in these industries could cause our customers to suffer, and thereby adversely affect our ability to continue to be profitable. Television operators are subject to extensive government regulation by the FCC and other U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies. These regulations could limit capital expenditures by television operators and if that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The telecommunications and television industries are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries. Our business is dependent upon the continued growth of these industries in the United States and internationally. Recent legislation has lowered the legal barriers to entry for companies into the United States' multi-channel television market, but telecommunications companies may not successfully enter this or related markets. Moreover, the growth of our business internationally is dependent in part on similar deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad, in which deregulation may not occur. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may vote for actions that may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our officers, directors and 5% or more stockholders, together control approximately 37.56% (as of February 29, 2008) of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to significantly influence the management and affairs of our Company and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may 31 have an effect on any potential change in control or other business combination and might affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interest of our other stockholders. We have not issued dividends on our common stock for over fifteen years and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since November 27, 1989 and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. The decision to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, our lending agreement with our bank also restricts our ability to pay dividends without the bank's consent. The historical and prospective lack of issuing dividends may diminish the value of the common stock. An increase in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding could reduce the price of our common stock. At December 31, 2007, there were 2.2 million potentially dilutive shares that would be issuable if all outstanding common stock options were exercised. Issuance or sale of a substantial number of shares of additional common stock, or the perception that such issuance or sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock as it would result in additional shares of our common stock being available on the public market. These issuances or sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws and in New York corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our Company by a third-party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt, limiting who may call special meetings of our stockholders, and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. 32 The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, general conditions in the digital media industry, announcements of technological innovations or new products introduced by us or our competitors, and other events or factors. The stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. During the period commencing January 1, 2005 through March 1, 2008, the closing price of our common stock has ranged between $0.87 and $5.65. This volatility has had a substantial impact on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 