ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. We consider the factors described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as we discuss under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” and should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Current and future economic conditions may adversely affect our business and customers. The United States and other countries where we operate continue to struggle to emerge from economic recessions. This could adversely affect overall spending on technology and services and reduce demand or delay payments for our products and services. The continuing unfavorable economic environment may also cause our customers to have difficulty obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and our customers may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. Further, we may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the weakened economic conditions and such conditions could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues may fluctuate from period to period and therefore may fail to meet expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. In addition, our revenues may not follow any past trends. Our financial results depend on many factors and may fail to meet our expectations for a number of reasons. A variety of factors could cause our revenues to fluctuate, including decreased capital spending by our customers, the financial health of our customers, changes in customer demand for our products, changes in our product mix, the need for continual, rapid new product introductions, successful execution of our strategy to develop and market web-based content creation solutions, quality and market acceptance of new products and services, competitive pricing pressures, the cyclical nature of the broadcast industry and other markets in which our products and services are sold, and economic conditions 18 affecting our customers and us. Any failure to meet expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully continue to expand our Axis graphics solution or to develop, introduce and sell new products and services, then we may be unable to compete effectively in the future. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce and successfully market our Axis graphics creation and order management services, other new products employing the latest technologies, including graphics systems and software that continues to replace our legacy products and older graphics systems, as well as hosted applications that meet the rapidly evolving requirements of our customers. Our success increasingly depends on the ability to cement our position in new segments of the broadcast market with our graphics offerings, including workflow solutions and asset management, channel branding, and Axis graphics online content creation and order management services. In recent years, sales of our graphics systems/CG products, channel branding systems and clip servers have resulted in part due to the increasing implementation of HD and emerging implementation of 3D stereoscopic production by the broadcast facilities. We expect, however, that demand for these products may decline when implementation of HD is completed by a larger percentage of broadcasters. If any of the following occur, then our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed: · our broadcast customers do not continue to order our products at the same rate or in the same quantities following their transition to HD, or their budgets for such products are reduced or eliminated, · 3D stereoscopic production does not grow as predicted, resulting in unrealized sales, · we fail to increase sales of our Axis graphics solutions in sufficient amounts to offset any declines in sales of our traditional broadcast products, · we fail to complete and introduce new product designs and services in a timely manner, · we are unable to have these new products manufactured or developed according to design specifications, · our customers do not perceive value in our new offerings and demand deep discounts, · we do not open the appropriate marketing/sales channels for our hosted and non-broadcast products, · our sales channels do not create adequate demand for our products, or · market demand for our new products and services does not develop as anticipated. If we are unable to keep up with rapid change in our industry, then our business may suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and changes in workflow by our customers, our customer’s other vendors and our competitors. Due to technological advancements and changes in industry standards, our products may become obsolete or the prices at which we can sell them may decline. Future technological advances in the television, video and multimedia industries may result in the availability of new products or 19 services that could compete with our products or require us to reduce the price of our existing products or services. The availability of competing or less expensive products could cause our existing or potential customers to fulfill their needs more effectively and cost-efficiently with products other than ours. For example, customers are, in many environments, using personal computers to create and edit graphics. This is a task that traditionally would have been completed on our standalone machines. To accommodate this new workflow, we provide offline versions of our software that can be used to create graphics to be played out on our proprietary systems. We may not be successful in offering Axis or in enhancing our other products or in developing, manufacturing or marketing new products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. In addition, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. Announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings by either our competitors or us may cause customers to defer or fail to purchase our existing products or services. In addition, it is possible that errors or failures may be found in our products. Such errors or failures could cause delays in product introductions and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our sales and our competitive position and could increase warranty claims. This could result in an increase in the inventory of our products. If we do not develop, on a timely basis, new products and enhancements to existing products, or correct errors should they arise, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, then our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Furthermore, the trend toward the use of software-based and web-based solutions, including our own hosted services, may cause price erosion in our legacy products, create opportunities for new competitors, allow existing competitors enhanced opportunities and limit the sale of our proprietary systems. We expend substantial resources in developing and selling our products and services, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue as a result of these efforts. To establish market acceptance of our products and services, we must dedicate significant resources to research and development, production, and sales and marketing. We experience a delay between the time when we expend these resources and the time when we begin to generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. We record as expenses the costs related to the development of new products as these expenses are incurred. As a result, our profitability from quarter to quarter and from year to year may be materially and adversely affected by the number and timing of sales of our existing products and our new product introductions in any period, and the level of acceptance gained by these products. 20 Our results of operations could be adversely affected by impairments of goodwill or other long-lived assets and intangible assets or a write down of our deferred tax assets. We have recorded $2.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Although our latest tests indicate that no goodwill impairment is currently required, future deterioration in market conditions could lead to goodwill impairments that could have a negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, we have $18.5 million of deferred tax assets on our balance sheet at December 31, 2011, primarily related to our net operating loss carryforwards. The realizability of this asset is based on estimates and assumptions using available information and judgment. If actual results differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we used, that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, the Company has not identified any impairments related to goodwill or other long-lived assets, nor do we believe that any additional valuation allowances are required for our deferred tax assets. We have incurred net losses in each of our two most recently completed fiscal years and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods. We have incurred, on the basis of U.S generally accepted accounting principles, net losses in each of the past two fiscal years: $4.2 million in 2011 and $2.4 million in 2010. These losses, among other things, adversely affect our shareholders’ equity and working capital. These losses, and the principal factors or components underlying them, are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will be profitable or, if we become profitable whether it can be sustained. We will be unable to compete effectively if we fail to anticipate product opportunities based upon emerging technologies and standards and fail to develop products and services that incorporate these technologies and standards. We may spend significant time and money on research and development to design and develop products and services around an emerging technology or industry standard. If an emerging technology or industry standard that we have identified fails to achieve broad market acceptance in our target markets, then we may be unable to generate significant revenue from our research and development efforts. Moreover, even if we are able to develop products using adopted standards, then our products may not be accepted in our target markets. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. 21 If systems manufacturers move away from the use of industry standards that we support with our products and adopt alternative standards, then we may be unable to design and develop new products that conform to these new standards. The expertise required is unique to each industry standard, and we would be required to either hire individuals with the requisite expertise or acquire this expertise through a licensing arrangement or by other means. The demand for individuals with the necessary expertise to develop a product relating to a particular industry standard is generally high, and we may not be able to hire such individuals. The cost to acquire this expertise through licensing or other means may be high and such arrangements may not be possible in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Since our systems are Microsoft® Windows®-based, we are vulnerable to issues that arise, both anticipated and unanticipated, whenever a current version of Windows is updated or a new version of Windows is released. When a Windows update is released, Lyric, other Chyron applications and/or the graphics systems of our customers may fail to function correctly or at all. Consequently, we incur expenditures conducting an investigation and subsequently, devising a solution. This can be a time- and capital-consuming process. When a new version of Windows is released, we are forced, against our schedule, to rigorously test all of our software and systems using the new version, investigate malfunctions and re-engineer our software where necessary. This financial and labor expenditure is required in order for us to have the ability to officially represent our software and systems as supporting a specific version of Windows. Our revenues and our market share will decline if we do not continue to develop and exploit the compatibility of our products with Windows. Microsoft’s newest version, Windows 7, has not yet been validated with our proprietary systems, although it can be used with selected offline software and hosted applications. We are currently under an agreement with Microsoft to continue the use of an OEM version of Windows XP® until we have validated and tested Windows 7 with our software. Because we rely on the implementation of our software and services in Windows® and other operating systems, we are exposed to the vagaries of individual systems or installations in which hardware and/or software may interfere with the operation of our software and systems, or be interfered with by our software and/or systems, and our systems may face exposure to computer viruses. For example, because our Axis World Graphics applications are accessed via an Internet web browser, we are required to test Axis within multiple web browsers including Internet Explorer® and Safari® running on both current and legacy Windows® and Apple® operating systems. We may spend a significant amount of time and resources ensuring that Axis functions properly on a wide range of systems and within the various operating systems and browsers, and in making necessary revisions to Axis to enable compatibility with new versions of these systems. Commissioning our systems, software and services in these situations can consume time and resources beyond original estimates and consequently reduce our profit margins. If we are unable to continue offering our products on the latest versions of these browsers and operating systems, then we will not be able to generate sales of these products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. 22 We may not successfully develop strategic relationships that may be important to our business. We believe the formation of strategic relationships will be important to our broadcast and online SaaS offerings. The inability to find strategic partners or the failure of any existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results for us could harm our business. We will rely in part on strategic relationships to help us: · maximize visibility and adoption of our products and services through distribution arrangements, · enhance our brand, · expand the range of commercial activities based on our technology, and · increase the performance, functionality and utility of our products and services. Many of these goals have historically been beyond our traditional strengths. Going forward, we anticipate that we may become more reliant on strategic partners to provide multimedia content and build the necessary infrastructure for media delivery. In addition, the efforts of our strategic partners may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, these strategic relationships may be terminated before we realize any benefit. We operate in a highly competitive environment and industry and we may lack resources needed to capture increased market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The markets for digital and broadcast graphics products and services are highly competitive. These markets are characterized by constant technological change and evolving industry standards. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. In addition, certain vendors dominate certain product categories and market segments, on a region-by-region basis, in which we currently operate or may wish to operate in the future. As a result, our ability to compete and operate in these areas may be limited. We believe that our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the success and timing of new product and service offerings introduced by us and by our competitors, product performance and price, market presence and customer support. We may not be able to compete successfully with respect to these factors. Maintaining any advantage that we may have, now or in the future, over our competitors will require our continuing investments in research and development, acquisition and retention of highly skilled personnel, competitive analyses, sales and marketing and customer service and support. In addition, as we enter new markets, we may encounter distribution channels, technical requirements and competitive factors that differ from those in the markets in which we currently operate. We may not be able to compete successfully in these new markets. Increased competition in any of our current markets could also result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 We may encounter periods of industry-wide, surface-mount components shortage, resulting in pricing pressure and a risk that we could be unable to fulfill our customers’ requirements. The semiconductor industry (from which surface-mount components are derived) has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, supply of, and price of its products, which feed the electronics, telecommunications and computer markets. These fluctuations have resulted in circumstances when supply and demand for the industry’s products have been widely out of balance. Our operating results may be materially harmed by industry-wide surface mount component shortage, which could result in severe pricing pressure. In a market with undersupply, we would have to compete with the larger customers of our vendors for limited manufacturing capacity. For example, as a result of the extensive flooding in Thailand, we experienced a temporary shortage in one of our components. In such an environment, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a timely manner or in quantities necessary to meet our requirements. Since we outsource the manufacture and supply of a significant proportion of our products, we are particularly vulnerable to such supply shortages. As a result, we may be unable to fulfill orders and may lose customers. Any future, industry-wide shortage of surface-mount components or manufacturing capacity would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of surface-mount components. We depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce surface-mount components for our products. Our principal suppliers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their ability to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. For example, we currently depend on one supplier for a surface-mount component that is used in substantially all of our hardware products. This component was manufactured by our supplier at a facility in Thailand which experienced extensive flooding in recent months. As a result, our supplier was forced to seek alternate sources of supply and shifted production to other facilities. Because we had enough inventory on hand, the delay in receipt of this component did not have any impact on the results of operations for 2011. As of December 2011, the supplier is back to its normal production schedule. Introducing new surface-mount components or transferring existing design and specifications to a new third-party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our components may increase if we are required to use a new third-party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. We depend on the availability of specific off-the-shelf components. If the supply of specific off-the-shelf components for our products is terminated due to either market demand or by choice of the manufacturer, then production, and therefore, revenue, could be negatively impacted. In addition, our resources would need to be diverted to locate a replacement component, which must then be rigorously tested and qualified. If we fail to have the ability to seamlessly switch from a non-available component to a replacement, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. 24 Our business will suffer if our network systems fail or become unavailable. A reduction in the performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure would harm our ability to distribute our products and services to our users, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain users and content providers. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems could also be subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct which could result in unintentional disclosure of proprietary, sensitive or confidential information. Such unauthorized access could expose us, our customers or the individuals to a risk of loss or misuse of information, resulting in litigation or potential liability for us. Although we offer redundant configurations for some of our systems and co-locations of our servers to protect our Axis World Graphics hosted services, we do not offer fully redundant configurations across the entire product line, nor do we have a formal disaster recovery plan. We might not carry adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Any system error or failure that causes interruption in availability of products or services or an increase in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing customers or content providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer sustained or repeated interruptions, then our products and services could be less attractive to our users and our business would be materially harmed. We depend upon third-party dealers to market and sell our products and services and they may discontinue sale of our products and services, fail to give our products and services priority or be unable to successfully market, sell and support our products and services. During 2011, 32% of our sales were made to third-party dealers and independent representatives. Although we have contracts with our dealers and representatives, any of them may terminate their relationship with us on short notice. The loss of one or more of our principal dealers, or our inability to attract new dealers, could materially harm our business. We may lose dealers in the future and we may be unable to recruit additional or replacement dealers. As a result, our future performance will depend in part on our ability to retain our existing dealers and representatives and attract new dealers and representatives who will be able to sell and support our products and services effectively. Problems associated with international business operations could subject us to risks from financial, operational and political situations, and affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products and services. Sales to customers located outside the United States accounted for 28% of our total sales in 2011 and 25% of our total sales in 2010. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales in future periods. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: 25 · managing foreign dealers and foreign customers, which may be state corporations or government agencies, · staffing and managing foreign branch offices, · political and economic instability, · foreign currency exchange fluctuations, · changes in tax laws, tariffs, environmental directives, freight rates and governmental royalties, · timing and availability of export licenses, · changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, · inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, · longer collection cycles for accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts, · obtaining governmental approvals for certain products, and · technical standards which may differ and/or be more stringent that those of the United States, and would cause us to incur expenses associated with obtaining required certifications. In 2011, we denominated sales of our products in foreign countries exclusively in U.S. dollars and British Pounds Sterling. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of a foreign country would increase the price of our products in that country so that our products become more expensive to customers in the local currency of that foreign country. As a result, sales of our products in that foreign country may decline. To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team or continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We depend on the members of our management team for our business success. The loss of any one member of our senior management team, including, in particular, Michael Wellesley-Wesley, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Jerry Kieliszak, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, could result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the development and commercialization of our products, and could hinder the operation of our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Wellesley-Wesley which extends through December 2012. The agreement may be terminated either by us or by Mr. Wellesley-Wesley with or without consent. Mr. Kieliszak is employed with us on an at-will basis pursuant to an offer letter executed at the time he commenced employment with us. Mr. Kieliszak is party to a severance agreement with us. Messrs. Wellesley-Wesley and Kieliszak are parties to change-in-control agreements with us. The terms of these agreements will be detailed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of our 2012 Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A. The loss of the services of these individuals may delay or prevent us from achieving our objectives. 26 In addition, we believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and sales people. Most of our employees are at-will and only a few are subject to employment contracts. Hiring qualified sales and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Competition for these types of employees is high. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales and technical personnel necessary for the development of our business. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel, would materially harm our business. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and may be sued for infringing on the rights of others. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we prevent others from copying innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Our success also depends, in part, upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We rely on a combination of methods to protect our proprietary intellectual property, technology and body of knowledge, such as: · trade secret laws, · copyright law, · trademark law, · patent law, · contractual provisions, · confidentiality agreements, and · certain technology and security measures. Because it is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent and trade secret protection for our products where available and when we deem appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We also intend to continue to seek trademark status for our product/service brand names and technologies, in order to prevent our competitors from co-opting these brand names for their own use. Existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. Moreover, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries and territories. Domestic and foreign laws, in combination with the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary rights. The steps we have taken regarding our proprietary technology may not be sufficient to deter misappropriation; for example, we have rights in trademarks, service marks and copyrights that are not registered. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties; however, employees may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any 27 breach. Also, the copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws we rely upon to protect our intellectual property do not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar or superior to our products and technologies, or designing around the patents we own or the technology we create. In the systems and software industries, companies receive notices from time to time alleging infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In the past we have been, and may from time to time continue to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Companies may pursue claims against us with respect to the alleged infringement of patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of infringement. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources from the day-to-day operation of our business. If a new law or regulation is adopted pertaining to the telecommunications and television industries, it could harm our customers’ business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment by U.S. federal or state or international governments of new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing regulations or a reversal of the trend toward deregulation in these industries could cause our customers to suffer, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Television operators are subject to extensive government regulation by the FCC and other U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies. These regulations could limit capital expenditures by television operators and if that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The telecommunications and television industries are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries. Our business is dependent upon the continued growth of these industries in the United States and internationally. Recent legislation has lowered the legal barriers to entry for companies into the United States’ multi-channel television market, but telecommunications companies may not successfully enter this or related markets. Moreover, the growth of our business internationally is dependent in part on similar deregulation of the telecommunications industry abroad and such deregulation may not occur. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain financing for our future needs, and liquidity issues have and may continue to increase our cost of capital. At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.2 million and working capital of $7.4 million. We have a credit facility from a U.S. bank which expires December 29, 2012. The credit facility provides for a $1.5 million revolving line of credit with an advance rate of up to 80% of eligible accounts receivable. We believe that cash on hand, net cash expected to be generated in the business, and the amount available under our line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next twelve months if we are able to achieve our planned results of operations and retain the availability of credit under our lending agreement. However, we may 28 need to raise additional funds in order to fund our business, expand our sales and marketing activities, develop or enhance new products and services, respond to competitive pressures and satisfy our existing and any new obligations that may arise. We could be in default under our credit facility with our bank if: (i) we fail to make payment of principal and interest when due; (ii) we fail to provide to our bank required financial statements, reports and certificates; fail to timely file all required tax returns and pay timely; maintain required insurance policies at levels acceptable to the bank; maintain our primary operating bank accounts with the bank; fail to meet our financial covenants or comply with the required negative covenants; (iii) we incur a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition or if there is a material impairment in the perfection of the bank’s lien on the collateral supporting the credit facility; (iv) we become insolvent; (v) are issued a judgment for payment of $200,000 or more net of insurance recovery if any; and (vi) other events of default as described in our Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, with our bank. In the event of default, the bank’s remedies include any or all of the following: (i) declare all outstanding obligations, including unpaid principal and interest on our equipment term loan, due and payable; (ii) stop advances or credit under the credit facility; (iii) require that we deposit cash equal to any outstanding letters of credit; (iv) terminate any foreign exchange forward contracts; (v) dispose of collateral adequate to repay the bank any amounts owed to it; and (vi) take additional measures, as outlined in the Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, to protect its interests. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Capital is critical to our business, and our ability to raise capital in the event that losses use our available cash would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a shareholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market our products that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. 29 Significant changes in discount rates, the actual return on pension assets and other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded related to our qualified pension plan. Accounting principles generally accepted in the Unites States (“GAAP”) require that income or expense related to the pension plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial calculations, which reflect certain assumptions. The most significant of these assumptions relate to interest rates, the capital markets and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, as well as the actual value of pension assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect GAAP expense also affect the amount of cash that we will contribute to our pension plan. Because the values of these pension assets have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the pension plan and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholders have significant voting power and may vote for actions that may not be in the best interests of our shareholders. Our officers, directors and 5% or more shareholders, together control approximately 40.42% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2012. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, will be able to significantly influence the management and affairs of our company and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have an effect on any potential change in control or other business combination and might affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders. An increase in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding could reduce the price of our common stock. At December 31, 2011, there were 3.8 million potentially dilutive shares that would be issuable if all outstanding common stock options were exercised and all restricted stock units were vested, plus an additional 2.3 million shares available for grant under our stock incentive plan. Issuance or sale of a substantial number of shares of additional common stock, or the perception that such issuance or sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock as it would result in additional shares of our common stock being available on the public market. These issuances or sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 30 We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws and New York corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. Shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, issue shares of stock with voting, liquidation and other rights in preference to the rights of common shareholders and thwart a takeover attempt, · limiting who may call special meetings of our shareholders, and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors, or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our shareholders at shareholder meetings. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our liquidity and operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, general conditions in the digital media industry, announcements of technological innovations or new products or services introduced by us or our competitors, and other events or factors. The stock market in general, and the shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. During the period commencing January 1, 2010 through March 1, 2012, the price of our common stock has ranged between $1.17 and $3.40. This volatility has had a substantial impact on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 