Item 1A. Risk Factors Supply The world's sources of rough diamonds are highly concentrated in a limited number of countries. Varying degrees of political and economic risk exist in these countries. As a consequence, the diamond business is subject to various sovereign risks beyond the Company's control, such as changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. In addition, the Company is subject to various political and economic risks, including the instability of foreign economies and governments, labor disputes, war and civil disturbances and other risks that could cause production difficulties or stoppages, restrict the movement of inventory or result in the deprivation or loss of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation. Any significant disruption of the Company's sources of supply, or restriction of inventory movement could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Based upon published reports, the Company believes that more than half of the world's current diamond output is sold by the Diamond Trading Company ("DTC"), the rough diamond sales arm of the De Beers Group. The DTC is the primary world-wide marketing mechanism of the rough diamond industry. Sales for the DTC are made in London and South Africa to a select group of clients ("sightholders") which, according to published reports, number approximately 95, including the Company. The DTC has been and continues to be an important supplier of rough diamonds to the Company. The Company has been a sightholder for approximately 60 years. The loss of its status as a sightholder could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's cooperation arrangement with ALROSA is a significant part of its operations. Any interruption in the supply of diamonds from Russia could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Rough Pricing Through its control of more than half of the value of the current world rough diamond output, the DTC can exert significant control over the pricing of rough and polished diamonds by adjusting the quantity and pricing of rough diamonds it supplies to the marketplace. Historically, the Company has been able to pass along such price increases to its customers. From time to time, however, the Company has absorbed these price increases in the short term to maintain an orderly pricing relationship with its customers. This has, in the past, caused temporary adverse effects on the Company's earnings. A large rapid increase in rough diamond prices could materially adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating margins if the increased cost of rough diamonds could not be passed along to its customers in a timely manner. Conversely, a significant decrease in the price of better quality rough diamonds could materially adversely affect the Company's revenues, operating margins and inventory value. Polished Pricing Any rapid decrease in the price of polished diamonds could have a material adverse effect on the Company in terms of inventory reserves, lower sales and lower margins. Competition The polished and rough diamond business is highly competitive. A substantial number of cutters and polishers and traders, some of which the Company believes to be larger or to have greater financial resources than the Company, sell diamonds of all qualities to the Company's customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 9 