D. Risk factors The following is a summary of some of the significant risks that could affect Makita. Other risks that could affect Makita are also discussed elsewhere in this annual report. Additionally, some risks that may be currently unknown to Makita and other risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, may become material. Some of these statements are forward-looking statements that are subject to the “Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements” appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Makita’s sales are affected by the levels of construction activities and capital investments in its markets. The demand for power tools, Makita’s main products, is affected to a large extent by the levels of construction activities, capital investment and consumption trends in the relevant regions. Generally speaking, the levels of construction activities and capital investment and consumption trends depend largely on the economic conditions in the market. As a result, when economic conditions weaken in the principal markets for Makita’s activities, including Japan, Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Russia, North America, Asia, The Middle East, Central and South America, and Oceania, this may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the economic slowdown, caused by, among others, the sub-prime loan problem in the U.S. since the summer of 2007, the volatile stock market causing the global economic downturn and the soaring price of crude oil or mineral resources, may have a direct or indirect negative impact on Makita’s financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect Makita’s financial results. The functional currency for all of Makita’s significant foreign operations is the local currency. The results of transactions denominated in local currencies of Makita’s subsidiaries around the world are translated into Japanese yen using the average market conversion rate during each financial period. Assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies are converted into yen at the rate prevailing at the end of each financial period. As a result, Makita’s operating results, assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity are affected by fluctuation in values of the Japanese yen against these local currencies. Among others, Makita is affected by fluctuations in the value of the euro, the U.S. dollar and Chinese Renmin yuan, the euro and the U.S. dollar being the primary foreign currency on which Makita bases its foreign sales and the U.S. dollar and Chinese Renmin yuan being the primary foreign currency on which Makita bases its foreign costs and liabilities. In an effort to minimize the impact of short-term exchange rate fluctuations between major currencies, mainly the euro, the U.S. dollar, and the Japanese yen, Makita engages in hedging transactions. However, medium-to-long-term fluctuations of exchange rates may affect for Makita to execute procurement, production, logistics, and sales activities as planned and may have an impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Makita faces intense competition in the global market for its power tools for professional use. The global market for power tools for professional use is highly competitive. Factors that affect competition in the markets for Makita’s products include the quality, functionality of products, technological developments, the pace of new product development, price, reliability, durability, after-sale service and the rise of new competitors. 3 Table of Contents While Makita strives to ensure its position as a leading international supplier of power tools for professional use, there is no guarantee that it will be able to compete effectively in the future. If Makita is unable to compete effectively, it may lose market share and its earnings may be adversely affected. Moreover, economic slowdown tends to result in intensified competition and increased downward pressure. Accordingly if Makita is unable to compete effectively, Makita’s sales volumes may decrease and inventories may increase, resulting in a downward pressure on the prices for Makita’s products to sell the inventory, which in turn could have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If Makita is not able to develop attractive products, Makita’s sales activities may be adversely affected. Makita’s principal competitive strengths are its diverse range of high-quality, high-performance power tools for professional use, and the strong reputation of the MAKITA brand, both of which depend in part on Makita’s ability to continue to develop attractive and innovative products that are well received by the market. There is no assurance that Makita will be able to continue to develop such products. If Makita is no longer able to quickly develop new products that meet the changing needs and correspond the market price for high-end, professional users, it may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Geographic concentration of Makita’s main facilities may have adverse effects on Makita’s business activities. Makita’s principal management functions, including its headquarters, and most of suppliers on which it relies for supplying major parts are located in Aichi Prefecture (“Aichi”), Japan. Makita’s manufacturing facilities in Aichi and Kunshan, Jiangsu Province, China, account for 23% and 58%, respectively, of Makita’s total production volume on a consolidated basis during the year under review. Due to this geographic concentration of Makita’s major functions, including plants and other operations in Japan and China, Makita’s performance may be significantly affected by major natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including earthquakes, floods, fires, power outages, and suspension of water supplies. In addition, Makita’s facilities in China may also be affected by changes in political and legal environments, changes in economic conditions, revisions in tariff rates, currency appreciation, labor disputes, emerging infectious diseases, power outages resulting from inadequacies in infrastructure, and other factors. In the event that such developments cannot be foreseen or measures taken to alleviate their damaging impact are inadequate, Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If Makita fails to maintain cooperative relationships with significant customers, Makita’s sales may be seriously affected. Makita has a number of significant customers. If Makita loses these customers and is unable to develop new sales channels to take their place, sales may decline and have an adverse impact on Makita’s business performance and financial position. In addition, if major customers of Makita select power tools and other items made in China and sell them under their own brand, this may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If any of Makita’s suppliers fail to deliver materials or parts required for production as scheduled, Makita’s production activities may be adversely affected. Makita’s production activities are greatly dependent on the on-schedule delivery of materials and parts from its suppliers. Purchases of production-use materials from Chinese manufacturers have increased in recent years. When launching new products, sales commencement dates can slip if Chinese manufacturing technology does not satisfy our demands, or if it takes an inordinate amount of time in order to satisfy our demands. There is a concern that this can result in lost sales opportunities. Makita purchases its significant component parts from sole suppliers. There is no assurance that Makita will be able to find alternate suppliers that can provide materials and parts of similar quality and price in a sufficient quantity and in a timely manner. 4 Table of Contents In the event that any of these suppliers cannot deliver the required quality and quantity of parts on schedule, this will have an adverse effect on Makita’s production schedules and cause a delay in Makita’s own product deliveries. This may cause Makita to lose some customers or require Makita to purchase replacement materials or parts from alternate sources at a higher price. Any of these occurrences may have a detrimental effect on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Makita’s overseas activities and entry into overseas markets entail risks, which may have a material adverse effect on Makita’s business activities. Makita derives a significant majority of its sales in markets located outside of Japan, including Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Russia, North America, Asia, the Middle East, Central and South America, and Oceania. During the year under review, approximately 85% of Makita’s consolidated net sales were derived from products sold overseas. Moreover, 77% of global production volume were derived from overseas production. The high percentage of overseas sales and production gives rise to a number of risks. If such risks occur, they may have a material adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Such risks include the following: (1) Unexpected changes in laws and regulations; (2) Disadvantageous political and economic factors; (3) The outflow of technical know-how and knowledge due to personnel turnover enabling Makita’s competitors to strengthen their position; (4) Potentially unfavorable tax systems; and (5) Terrorism, war, and other factors that lead to social turbulence. (6) The interruption of or disruption to Makita’s operation due to labor disputes Makita may be unable to protect its intellectual property rights and could suffer significant liabilities, litigation costs or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling its products if it is infringing the intellectual property of third parties. In the area where our sales and production are significant, Makita applies for the patent, design and trademark, and strives for protection of intellectual property rights positively. However, Makita may be unable to eliminate completely the product of the third party who infringes on the intellectual property rights of our group, or the product of the party similar to our product. In that case, it may have a negative influence on the achievements of our group. Moreover, Makita corresponds so that it may not infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights, but it may be claimed that it is infringing on intellectual property rights from the third party. When infringement of intellectual property rights is investigated from a third party, the obligation of the payment of reparations may arise or halt in production and sales stop of a product may be ordered. In that case, it may have a negative influence on the business performance and the financial condition of our group. When the procurement of raw materials used by Makita becomes difficult or prices of these raw materials rise sharply, this may have an adverse impact on performance. In manufacturing power tools, Makita purchases raw materials and components, including silicon steel plates, aluminum, steel products, copper wire, and electronic parts. In recent years, demand for these materials in China has risen substantially. Some suppliers are operating at over-capacity and prices of certain production materials, especially crude oil, steel products and copper wire, have increased. Under these circumstances, if Makita is unable to obtain the necessary quantities of these materials, especially in China and Japan, this may have an adverse effect on production schedules. In addition, the shortage of capacity among suppliers is a factor leading to increased prices of production materials. 5 Table of Contents If Makita experiences increases in prices of production materials, greater than what can be absorbed by increased productivity or through other internal efforts and prices of final products cannot be raised sufficiently, such circumstance may have a detrimental impact on the performance and financial position of Makita. Product liability litigation or recalls may harm Makita’s financial statements and reputation. Makita is developing a variety of products including power tools under the safety standard of each country, and is manufacturing them globally based on the quality standards of the factory. However, a large-scale recall and a large-scale product liability lawsuit may significantly damage Makita’s brand image and reputation. In addition, the related cost and time incurred through the recall or lawsuit may affect business performance and financial condition of Makita in case insurance policy does not cover the related cost. Fluctuations in stock market prices may adversely affect Makita’s financial statements. Makita holds certain Japanese equities and equity-linked financial products and records these securities as marketable securities and investment securities on its consolidated financial statements. The values of these investments are influenced by fluctuations in the quoted market prices. A fluctuation in the value of these securities will have an impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Environmental or other government regulations may have a material adverse impact on Makita’s business activities. Makita maintains strict compliance with environmental, commercial, export and import, tax, safety and other regulations that are applicable to its activities in all the countries and areas in which it operates. If Makita is unable to continue its compliance with existing regulations or is unable to comply with any new or amended regulations, it may be subject to fines and other penalties and its activities may be significantly restricted. The costs related to compliance with any new or amended regulations may also result in significant increases in overall costs. Investor confidence and the value of Makita’s ADRs and ordinary shares may be adversely impacted if Makita’s management concludes that Makita’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if Makita’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide adequate attestation over the adequacy of the internal control over Makita’s financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Securities and Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report in its Annual Report that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of corporate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Makita’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of Makita’s internal control over financial reporting. If Makita’s management concludes that Makita’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or if Makita’s independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with Makita’s internal control over its financial reporting or the level at which its controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, and declines to attest or issues a report that is qualified, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of Makita’s financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of Makita’s ADRs and ordinary shares. 6 Table of Contents 