D. Risk factors The following is a summary of some of the significant risks that could affect Makita. Other risks that could affect Makita are also discussed elsewhere in this annual report. Additionally, some risks that may be currently unknown to Makita and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, may become material. Some of these statements are forward-looking statements that are subject to the “Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements” appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Makita’s sales are affected by the levels of construction activities and capital investments in its markets. The demand for power tools, Makita’s main products, is affected to a large extent by the levels of construction activities and capital investments in the relevant regions. Generally speaking, the levels of construction activities and capital investment depend largely on the economic conditions in the market. As a result, when economic conditions weaken in the principal markets for Makita’s activities, including Japan, North America, Europe, and Asia, this may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Geographic concentration of Makita’s main facilities may have adverse effects on Makita’s business activities. Makita’s principal management functions, including its headquarters, and the companies on which it relies on for supplying major parts are located in Aichi Prefecture (“Aichi”), Japan. Makita’s manufacturing facilities in Aichi and Kunshan, Jiangsu Province, China, collectively account for approximately 76% of Makita’s total production volume on a consolidated basis in fiscal 2005. Due to this geographic concentration of Makita’s major functions, including plants and other operations in Japan and China, Makita’s performance may be significantly affected by major natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including earthquakes, floods, fires, power outages, and suspension of water supplies. In addition, Makita’s facilities in China may also be affected by changes in political and legal environments, changes in economic conditions, revisions in tariff rates, currency appreciation, labor disputes, power outages resulting from inadequacies in infrastructure, and other factors. In the event that such developments cannot be foreseen or measures taken to alleviate their damaging impact are inadequate, Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Makita’s overseas activities and entry into overseas markets entail risks, which may have a material adverse effect on Makita’s business activities. Makita derives a majority of its sales in markets located outside of Japan, including North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East, and emerging markets such as Russia and Eastern Europe. In fiscal 2005, approximately 80% of Makita’s consolidated net sales were derived from products sold overseas. On a volume basis, Makita depended on overseas markets for 87% of units sold. The high percentage of overseas sales gives rise to a number of risks. If such risks occur, they may have a material adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Such risks include the following: (1) Unexpected changes in laws and regulations; (2) Disadvantageous political and economic factors; (3) The outflow of technical know-how and knowledge due to personnel turnover enabling Makita’s competitors to strengthen their position; (4) Potentially unfavorable tax systems; and (5) Terrorism, war, and other factors that lead to social turbulence. Environmental or other government regulations may have a material adverse impact on Makita’s business activities. Makita maintains strict compliance with environmental, commercial, export and import, tax, safety and other regulations that are applicable to its activities in all the countries in which Makita operates. If Makita is unable to continue its compliance with existing regulations or is unable to comply with any new or amended regulations, it may be subject to fines and other penalties and its activities may be significantly restricted. The costs related to 5 Table of Contents compliance with any news or amended regulations may also result in significant increases in overall costs. In any such case, Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Makita is currently working to achieve compliance with two EU directives announced on February 13, 2003. One of them, entitled “Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment” (“WEEE”) requires recycling and reproduction of materials of almost all electrical products. The other is “Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances” (“RoHS”), which forbids the sale in EU member countries’ products containing certain toxic substances, such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chrome, polybrominated biphenyls, and polysbrominated diphenyl ethers, beginning on July 1, 2006. In order to comply with these directives, especially with RoHS, the cooperation of parts suppliers is essential. Makita is preparing measures to respond to the implementation of these directives including making requests to suppliers for eliminating such toxic substances in their products and providing guidance to assist them. Makita is also strengthening its systems for inspecting parts as they are delivered. However, the shift to alternative materials by Makita’s suppliers is still not fully completed. It is not possible for Makita to detect whether the delivered parts that it accepts from its suppliers contains the prohibited substances. If Makita unknowingly or inadvertently manufactures its products using parts containing such prohibited substances and sells such products in the EU, Makita may be required to recall its products to replace the defective parts, may sustain damage to its reputation and may be subject to fines and penalties. In such cases, Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect Makita’s financial results. The functional currency for all of Makita’s significant foreign operations is the local currency. The results of transactions denominated in local currencies of Makita’s subsidiaries around the world are translated into yen using the average market conversion rate during each financial period. Assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies are converted into yen at the rate prevailing at the end of each financial period. As a result, Makita’s operating results, assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity are affected by fluctuation in values of the Japanese yen against these local currencies. Sales denominated in foreign currencies account for approximately 74% of Makita’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005, and, accordingly, Makita’s operating income is significantly affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. In an effort to minimize the impact of short-term exchange rate fluctuations between major currencies, mainly the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the yen, Makita engages in hedging transactions. Makita is also increasing the percentage of products that it manufactures in China, which has resulted in an increase in foreign-currency denominated production costs. While Makita believes that such measures may help reduce the impact of some exchange rate fluctuations, it cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully hedge its exchange rate risks. In addition, medium-to-long-term fluctuations of exchange rates may make it difficult for Makita to execute procurement, production, logistics, and sales activities as planned and may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in stock market prices may adversely affect Makita’s financial statements. Makita holds certain Japanese equities and equity-linked financial products and records these securities as marketable securities on its consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2005, the aggregate carrying value of these securities was ¥24,594 million, which represents approximately 11.2% of Makita’s net assets. The values of these investments are influenced by fluctuations in the quoted market prices. A significant depreciation in the value of these securities will have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents If Makita cannot respond to changes in construction method and trends in demand, Makita’s sales may be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, market trends in demand for various power tools have been changing significantly due to the adoption of new construction methods, especially in Japan. For example, as prefabricated housing construction becomes more common, the use of power tools at construction sites has been decreasing substantially, while demand for fastening tools has increased. If Makita does not or is unable to respond to these to rapid shifts in demand for various power tools, Makita’s sales may decline and this may have an adverse effect on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The rapidly growing presence of China-based power tool manufacturers may harm Makita’s sales results. In recent years, power tool companies in China have expanded their presence in the world market. In particular, in certain markets in Asia where purchasing power is relatively low, competition with power tools made in China has intensified , with respect to lower end products. As the technology of Chinese power tool manufacturers improves, competition in the markets for high-end products for professional use may also intensify. As a result, Makita’s market share consolidated financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If Makita is not able to develop attractive products, Makita’s sales activities may be adversely affected. Makita’s principal competitive strengths are its diverse range of high-quality, high-performance power tools for professional use, and the good reputation of the MAKITA brand, both of which depend in part on Makita’s ability to continue to develop attractive and innovative products that are well received by the market. There is no assurance that Makita will be able to continue to develop such products. If Makita is no longer capable of quickly developing new products that meet the changing needs of the market for high-end, professional users, it may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If Makita fails to maintain cooperative relationships with significant customers, Makita’s sales may be seriously affected. Makita has a number of significant customers. If Makita loses these customers and is unable to develop new sales channels to take their place, sales may decline and have an adverse impact on Makita’s business performance and financial position. In fiscal 2004 major home center retailers in the United States began selling power tools, under their own brand name, which are supplied by Chinese manufacturers. If major customers of Makita select power tools and other items made in China and sell them under their own brand, this may have an adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. If any of Makita’s suppliers fail to deliver materials or parts required for production as scheduled, Makita’s production activities may be adversely affected. Makita’s production activities are greatly dependent on the on-schedule delivery of materials and parts from its suppliers. Makita purchases some of its component parts from sole suppliers. The largest single source supplier of the Company accounted for approximately 6% of its aggregate purchases of raw materials and parts in fiscal 2005. There is no assurance that Makita will be able to find alternate suppliers that can provide materials and parts of similar quality and price in a sufficient quantity and in a timely manner. In the event that any of these suppliers cannot deliver the required quality and quantity of parts on schedule, this will have an adverse effect on Makita’s production schedules and cause a delay in Makita’s own product deliveries. This may cause Makita to lose some customers or require Makita to purchase replacement materials or parts from alternate sources at a higher price. Any of these occurrences may have a detrimental effect on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. When the procurement of raw materials used by the Company becomes difficult or prices of these raw materials rise sharply, this may have an adverse impact on performance. In manufacturing power tools, Makita Group purchases raw materials and components, including silicon steel plates, aluminum, steel products, copper wire, and electronic parts. In recent years, demand for these materials in China and the rest of the world has risen substantially, and some suppliers are experiencing a shortage of capacity. Under these 7 Table of Contents circumstances, if the Makita Group is unable to obtain the necessary quantities of these materials, this may have an effect on production schedules. In addition, the shortage of capacity among suppliers is a factor leading to increased prices of production materials. If the Makita Group experiences increases in prices of production materials, greater than what can be absorbed by increased productivity or through other internal efforts and prices of final products cannot be raised sufficiently, such circumstance may have a detrimental impact on the performance and financial position of the Makita Group. Product liability litigation or recalls may harm Makita’s financial statements and reputation. Makita manufactures a wide range of power tools at factories worldwide according to ISO internationally accepted quality control standards. However, Makita cannot be certain that all of its products will be free of defects nor that if will not be subject to product recalls in the future. A large-scale recall or a substantial product liability suit brought against Makita may result in severe damage to Makita’s brand image and reputation. In addition, a major product recall or product liability lawsuit is likely to be very costly and would require a significant amount of management time and attention. Any of these occurrences may have a major adverse impact on Makita’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 