Item 1A. Risk Factors General Risk Factors Control. We are controlled by Robert and Linda Eder who own more than 50% of our common stock. As a result, the Eders are in a position to dictate the Company’s future and, in most cases, to dictate whether any action is approved by the shareholders. There can be no assurance that on the death of Mr. and Mrs. Eder, their heirs will decide to continue to operate the Company in the manner in which it is operated today. Succession; Senior Management Personnel. Robert Eder, our Chief Executive Officer, is 74 years old. Ronald Chrzanowski, our President, is 64 years old. Their ages create the risk of the loss of both their services, either permanently or for an indeterminate period of time. In such circumstances, we would be obligated to find replacements for them and during the period of the search for replacements, our operating results might be adversely affected. Lack of Liquidity. Our common stock is registered on the American Stock Exchange. Trading in our stock is very thin and the purchase or sale of a small amount of shares can have a substantial impact on the price of our stock. Cost of Compliance with Federal Securities Laws. We are a small company with a small number of employees. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to significant regulations including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we maintain a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we are now, or will in the future be, in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties, including fines and other sanctions as well as litigation. Our continued preparation for implementation of various corporate governance and reporting reforms and enhanced disclosure laws and regulations adopted in recent years requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We, like other public companies, are preparing for accounting disclosures required by laws and regulations adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In particular, we will be preparing to provide, if required, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, an annual report on our internal controls over the financial reporting and beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, an auditor’s attestation with respect to our report required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting forms could result in material delays in compliance and significantly increase our costs. Any failure to timely prepare for implementing the forms required by these new laws and regulations could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Leasing Segment Geographic Concentration. All of our non-billboard property is located in downtown Providence. We are, therefore, dependent on the Providence commercial real estate market with respect to the development of our undeveloped properties. The loss of major tenants by any one or more of our ground lease tenants of the developed properties could result in a default. Upon default and absent any mortgagee of the leasehold interest entering into a new ground lease with us, we would succeed to the ownership of the improvements. We would then be obligated to manage those improvements. We lack personnel with experience in managing large commercial structures. Additionally, a certain amount of our rental income is dependent upon the amount of rent received by our ground lease tenants. Accordingly, an economic downturn in Providence could adversely affect the rents paid to us. Undeveloped Properties. We have five parcels of land which are not subject to long-term ground leases and which are being leased for off-street parking. There is no assurance that we will find tenants for these properties. Historically, each of the Company’s tenants has been a single purpose entity with no other assets. While our leases require provision of performance and payment bonds during construction, there is always risk that an owner may default, or its contractor may default and the bonding company for various reasons may not discharge the liens on the property, leaving us with the obligation to discharge the liens in order to protect our interests. Generally, our leases provide for very modest rents during the construction and lease-up periods which have historically run about five years. Therefore, the impact on our revenues during the early years of any lease is primarily the avoidance of payment of real estate taxes. The rents that we receive from the use of the undeveloped properties for surface parking have generally covered our real estate taxes. Therefore, during the early years of any new lease, the additional net revenues will be marginal. Reliance on Senior Management. Mr. Eder and Mr. Chrzanowski are responsible for managing the leasing segment of the Company’s business. There is no one in the Company who could take over their responsibilities should something happen to both of them. If that circumstance arose, we would be obligated to search for replacements. Reliance on Single Tenant. All of our billboard locations are leased by Lamar. We have no experience in the outdoor advertising business. If Lamar defaults, we lack the expertise to find other advertisers and we might have difficulty finding a new tenant on the same terms and conditions or acquiring control over the billboard structures which are owned by Lamar. In such event, our revenues would be adversely affected for an indeterminate period. Insurance Coverage. We require all of our tenants to maintain specific insurance coverages in amounts which we believe are sufficient to protect us against loss. There may, however, be circumstances where the amount of that insurance is inadequate. We could experience a loss of rental income while pursuing an insurance claim. While all of our leases require that the tenant carry business interruption insurance to ensure the continued payment of rents to us in the event that a building could no longer be occupied due to fire or other casualty, the holder of any mortgage on the tenant’s interest in the property might not permit the rebuilding and our lease would terminate leaving us with no rental income. Environmental. While each of our tenants is required to protect the Company against any environmental hazards created as a result of its tenancy, nevertheless, as owner of the property, we have a residual obligation to remediate any contamination. Additionally, much of our property in downtown Providence has been filled over time and much of it was at one time dedicated to railroad use. While we believe that the environmental issues are not significant, nevertheless, underlying soil conditions may prohibit or restrict the type of use to which the land can be put. Petroleum Storage Segment Single Tenant for the Facility. We lease the Facility to one tenant and operate it for the account of that tenant under a lease which ends April 30, 2013. Beginning on May 1, 2008, this tenant has the right to terminate the lease and operating agreement at any time on giving us one year’s notice. Upon such termination or default by the tenant, there is no assurance that we could find another tenant for the Facility or, if we did find a tenant, that such tenant would pay the same rent. Any failure to secure a tenant willing to pay the same rental could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Environmental Concerns. The operation of the Facility carries with it significant environmental risk, including the potential for spills at the Terminal and the Pier. We have two known environmental problems at the Facility, one of which we think is insignificant. The other is a substantial plume of gasoline which our consulting engineers tell us was caused by the activities of an adjacent landowner which denies responsibility. Regulatory authorities are pursuing the claim against the adjacent landowner but to date there has been no resolution of the claim and there can be no assurance that there will be resolution in the future. As such, the existence of this environmental condition 6 Table of Contents may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of the Facility and may at some point impose on us significant costs which we might not be able to recover from a third party. Reliance on the Pier and Related Pipeline. The Terminal relies almost exclusively on the Pier for supplying petroleum products to the Terminal. The Pier is connected to the Terminal by underground pipelines. If for any reason either the Pier or any portion of the connecting pipelines were to be unavailable, the Terminal would experience a severe reduction in supply and petroleum throughput. Depending on the time of year, this could have an adverse impact on our revenues. Insurance. While we carry insurance with respect to the Facility which we think is adequate given the cost, there is no assurance that our coverage fully protects us. Terrorism. The Facility is potentially a target for terrorists. We have taken the steps required by the United States Transportation Security Administration and the United States Coast Guard to provide security at both the Terminal and the Pier. We believe that our security measures are adequate. They are, however, not foolproof and there always exists a possibility that we could be subject to an act of terrorism that could result in substantial damage to the Terminal. We maintain terrorism insurance. The coverages and amounts of that insurance might not be adequate in the event that the Terminal were substantially destroyed. Potential for Increased Governmental Regulation: We are subject to governmental regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Department of Homeland Security and other federal, state and local regulatory authorities with respect to the operation and security of the Facility. Any change in the regulations applicable to the Facility could impose on us additional costs and could adversely affect our financial performance. In particular, the Department of Homeland Security could change the threat classification of the Terminal or the Pier which could result in our incurring substantial additional capital and ongoing operating costs. 