Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks That Relate to the Company’s Transportation and Storage Segment and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 - Regulation and Rates. 6 FERC has comprehensive jurisdiction over PEPL, Southwest Gas Storage, Trunkline, Trunkline LNG, Sea Robin and Florida Gas as natural gas companies within the meaning of the Natural Gas Act of 1938. For natural gas companies, FERC’s jurisdiction relates, among other things, to the acquisition, operation and disposal of assets and facilities and to the service provided and rates charged. FERC has authority to regulate rates and charges for transportation or storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. FERC also has authority over the construction and operation of pipeline and related facilities utilized in the transportation and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, enlargement or abandonment of service using such facilities. PEPL, Trunkline, Sea Robin, Trunkline LNG, Southwest Gas Storage and Florida Gas hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by FERC, authorizing them to construct and operate the pipelines, facilities and properties now in operation for which such certificates are required, and to transport and store natural gas in interstate commerce. The following table summarizes the status of the rate proceedings applicable to the Transportation and Storage segment as of December 31, 2006, excluding Transwestern, the Company’s interest in which was redeemed on December 1, 2006: Date of Last Company Rate Filing Status PEPL May 1992 Settlement effective April 1997 Trunkline January 1996 Settlement effective May 2001 Sea Robin April 2001 Settlement effective May 2002 Trunkline LNG June 2001 Settlement effective January 2002 Southwest Gas Storage April 1989 Settlement effective October 1989 (1) Florida Gas October 2003 Settlement effective March 2005; rate moratorium in effect until October 2007, required to file by October 2009 ____________________ (1) For information related to a complaint filed with FERC against Southwest Gas Storage under Section 5 of the Natural Gas Act, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 - Regulation and Rates - Panhandle. Panhandle and Florida Gas are also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which regulate the safety of gas pipelines. For a discussion of the effect of certain FERC orders on Panhandle, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 - Regulation and Rates - Panhandle. Competition The interstate pipeline systems of Panhandle and Florida Gas compete with those of other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to the Company’s customers and end-users, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulation, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the ongoing demand for natural gas in the areas served by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Federal and state regulation of natural gas interstate pipelines has changed dramatically in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next several years. These regulatory changes have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in increased competition in the pipeline business. In order to meet competitive challenges, Panhandle and Florida Gas will need to adapt their marketing strategies, the type of transportation and storage services provided and their pricing and rate responses to competitive forces. Panhandle and Florida Gas also will need to respond to changes in state regulation in their market areas that allow direct sales to all retail end-user customers or, at a minimum, broader customer classes than now allowed. 7 FERC policy allows the issuance of certificates authorizing the construction of new interstate pipelines that are competitive with existing pipelines. A number of new pipeline and pipeline expansion projects are under development to transport large additional volumes of natural gas to the Midwest from the Rockies. These pipelines, which include Kinder Morgan’s Rockies Express Pipeline project, could potentially compete with the Company. The Company’s direct competitors include Alliance Pipeline LP, ANR Pipeline Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Northern Border Pipeline Company, Texas Gas Transmission Corporation, Northern Natural Gas Company, Vector Pipeline, Columbia Gulf Transmission and Midwestern Gas Transmission. Although for many years the Florida Gas pipeline system was the only interstate natural gas pipeline system serving peninsular Florida, since May 28, 2002, Florida Gas has competed in peninsular Florida with Gulfstream, a joint venture of Spectra Energy Corporation and The Williams Companies. Florida Gas also serves the Florida panhandle, where it competes with Gulf South Pipeline Company and the natural gas transportation business of Southern Natural Gas. Florida Gas faces competition, to a lesser degree, from alternate fuels, including residual fuel oil, in the Florida market, as well as from proposed LNG regasification facilities. Gathering and Processing Segment Services The principal assets of the acquired Sid Richardson Energy Services business, now known as Southern Union Gas Services, are located in the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico and include approximately 4,800 miles of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering pipelines, four cryogenic plants and six natural gas treatment plants. Southern Union Gas Services, which comprises the Company’s Gathering and Processing segment, is engaged in the gathering, transmission, treating, processing and redelivery of natural gas and natural gas liquids in Texas and New Mexico. Southern Union Gas Services’ activities primarily include connecting wells of natural gas producers to its gathering system, treating natural gas to remove impurities to meet pipeline quality specifications, processing natural gas for the removal of natural gas liquids, transporting natural gas and redelivering natural gas and natural gas liquids to a variety of markets. Southern Union Gas Services’ primary sales customers include producers, power generating companies, utilities, energy marketers, and industrial users located primarily in the southwestern United States. Southern Union Gas Services receives hydrocarbons for purchase or transportation to market from over 200 producers and suppliers, none of which account for more than 10 percent of its total hydrocarbon throughput. Southern Union Gas Services’ business is not generally seasonal in nature. Due to the flexibility built into its gathering systems and plants, Southern Union Gas Services is able to offer a broad array of services to producers. Sales contracts provided by Southern Union Gas Services primarily include percentage of proceeds, fee based and conditioning contracts, which as of December 31, 2006 comprised 53 percent, 29 percent and 14 percent, respectively, of Southern Union Gas Services’ sales contracts. These contracts vary in term from month-to-month up to and including the related lease life, with many of the contracts falling in the three- to five-year time frame. For the 2006 period subsequent to the March 1, 2006 acquisition, Southern Union Gas Services’ operating revenues net of Cost of gas and other energy costs were $172.2 million. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations for a summary of average daily volumes of natural gas and natural gas liquids volumes processed and the associated average daily prices for 2006. 8 For information about operating revenues, EBIT, assets and other financial information relating to the Gathering and Processing segment, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Business Segment Results - Gathering and Processing and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 21 - Reportable Segments. Significant Customers The following table provides the percentage of Gathering and Processing segment revenues and related weighted average contract lives of Southern Union Gas Services’ significant customers at December 31, 2006: Percent of Weighted Segment Revenues Average Life For Year Ended of Contracts at Customer December 31, 2006 December 31, 2006 ConocoPhillips Company (1) 22 % 20 Months BP Energy Company 11 Month to Month Constellation Power Source 10 Month to Month Other top 10 customers 22 N/A Remaining customers 35 N/A Total percentage 100 % (1) ConocoPhillips Company comprised ten percent of the Company’s consolidated Operating revenues reported in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2006. Natural Gas Connections Southern Union Gas Services’ major natural gas pipeline interconnects are with ATMOS Pipeline Texas, El Paso Natural Gas Company, Energy Transfer Fuel, LP, DCP Guadalupe Pipeline, LP, Enterprise Texas Pipeline, Northern Natural Gas Company, Oasis Pipeline, LP, ONEOK Wes Tex Transmission, LP, Public Service Company of New Mexico and Transwestern, a former affiliate of the Company (see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 10 - Unconsolidated Investments). Its major natural gas liquids pipeline interconnects are with Chapparal, Louis Dreyfus and Chevron. Regulation Southern Union Gas Services’ facilities are not currently regulated by FERC but are subject to oversight by various other governmental agencies, including matters of asset integrity, safety and environmental protection. The relevant agencies include the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) and its state counterparts, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Office of Pipeline Safety and its state counterparts. The Company believes that its gathering and processing operations are in material compliance with applicable safety and environmental statutes and regulations. 9 Competition Southern Union Gas Services competes with other midstream service providers and producer-owned midstream facilities in the Permian basin. The Company’s direct competitors include Targa Resources, DCP Midstream (formerly Duke Energy Field Services), Enterprise Texas Field Services and Regency Gas Services. Industry factors that typically affect the Company’s ability to compete in this segment are: · producer drilling activity, · contract fees charged, · pressures maintained on the gathering systems, · location of the gathering systems relative to competitors and drilling activity, · efficiency and reliability of the operations, and · delivery capabilities in each system and plant location. Commodity prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids also play a major role in drilling activity on or near the Company’s gathering and processing systems. Generally, lower commodity prices will result in less producer drilling activity and conversely, higher commodity prices will result in increased producer drilling activity. Southern Union Gas Services has responded to these industry conditions by positioning and configuring its gathering and processing facilities to offer a broad range of services to accommodate the types and quality of natural gas produced in the region. Many competing systems provide only a single level of service. Southern Union Gas Services also continues to further improve its system integrity by increasing its fuel efficiencies and reducing unaccounted for gas volume losses. Distribution Segment Services The Company’s Distribution segment is primarily engaged in the local distribution of natural gas in Missouri, through Missouri Gas Energy, and Massachusetts, through New England Gas Company. The utilities serve over 560,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers through local distribution systems consisting of 8,983 miles of mains, 6,028 miles of service lines and 45 miles of transmission lines. The utilities’ natural gas rates and operations in Missouri and Massachusetts are regulated by the Missouri Public Service Commission (MPSC) and the Massachusetts Department of Telecommunications and Energy (MDTE), respectively. The Distribution segment’s operations are generally sensitive to weather and seasonal in nature, with a significant percentage of annual operating revenues and net earnings being derived in the traditional winter heating season in the first and fourth calendar quarters. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the six months ended December 31, 2004 and the year ended June 30, 2004, the Distribution segment’s operating revenues were $668.7 million, $752.7 million, $273.6 million and $655.7 million, respectively; average customers served totaled 551,604, 548,514, 545,328 and 548,857, respectively; and gas volumes sold or transported totaled 77,890 million cubic feet (MMcf), 84,112 MMcf, 33,959 MMcf and 86,447 MMcf, respectively. The Distribution segment has no single customer, or group of customers under common control, which accounted for ten percent or more of the Company’s Distribution segment or consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the six months ended December 31, 2004 or the year ended June 30, 2004. For information about operating revenues, EBIT, assets and other financial information relating to the Distribution segment, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Business Segment Results - Distribution Segment and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 21 - Reportable Segments. 10 The Distribution segment customers served, gas volumes sold or transported and weather-related information for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the six months ended December 31, 2004 and the year ended June 30, 2004 are as follows: Six Year Ended Year Ended Months Ended Year Ended December 31, December 31, December 31, June 30, 2006 2005 2004 2004 Average number of customers: Residential 482,882 480,381 479,220 482,146 Commercial 67,120 66,608 64,940 65,635 Industrial and irrigation 129 142 140 138 Total average customers served 550,131 547,131 544,300 547,919 Transportation customers 1,473 1,383 1,028 938 Total average gas sales and transportation customers 551,604 548,514 545,328 548,857 Gas sales (MMcf): Residential 34,946 39,160 12,045 41,361 Commercial 14,938 16,633 5,469 17,423 Industrial and irrigation 517 525 170 455 Gas sales billed 50,401 56,318 17,684 59,239 Net change in unbilled gas sales 1,149 185 3,935 85 Total gas sales 51,550 56,503 21,619 59,324 Gas transported 26,340 27,609 12,340 27,123 Total gas sales and gas transported 77,890 84,112 33,959 86,447 Gas sales revenues ($ in thousands): Residential $ 472,926 $ 500,874 $ 155,281 $ 450,824 Commercial 189,837 201,122 62,775 180,242 Industrial and irrigation 11,140 10,499 2,142 5,059 Gas revenues billed 673,903 712,495 220,198 636,125 Net change in unbilled gas sales revenues (25,681) 19,561 43,871 1,937 Total gas sales revenues 648,222 732,056 264,069 638,062 Gas transportation revenues 12,253 12,885 5,223 10,542 Other revenues 8,246 7,758 4,305 7,092 Total operating revenues $ 668,721 $ 752,699 $ 273,597 $ 655,696 Weather: Massachusetts Utility Operations: Degree days (a) 4,901 5,801 2,004 5,644 Percent of 10-year measure (b) 90% 106% 98% 102% Percent of 30-year measure (b) 85% 101% 96% 98% Missouri Utility Operations: Degree days (a) 3,996 4,621 1,669 4,770 Percent of 10-year measure (b) 77% 89% 81% 92% Percent of 30-year measure (b) 77% 89% 82% 92% ___________________ (a) "Degree days" are a measure of the coldness of the weather experienced. A degree day is equivalent to each degree that the daily mean temperature for a day falls below 65 degrees Fahrenheit. (b) Information with respect to weather conditions is provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Percentages of 10- and 30-year measures are computed based on the weighted average volumes of gas sales billed. The 10- and 30-year measures are used for consistent external reporting purposes. Measures of normal weather used by the Company's regulatory authorities to set rates vary by jurisdiction. Periods used to measure normal weather for regulatory purposes range from 10 years to 30 years. 11 Gas Supply The cost and reliability of natural gas service are dependent upon the Company's ability to achieve favorable mixes of long-term and short-term gas supply agreements and fixed and variable transportation contracts. The Company has been acquiring its gas supplies directly since the mid-1980s when inter-state pipeline systems opened their systems for trans-portation service. The Company sought to ensure reliable service to customers by developing the ability to dispatch and monitor gas volumes on a daily, hourly or real-time basis. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the majority of the gas requirements for the utility operations of Missouri Gas Energy were delivered under short- and long-term transportation contracts through five major pipeline companies and more than twenty commodity suppliers. For this same period, the majority of the gas requirements for the Massachusetts utility operations of New England Gas Company were delivered under long-term contracts through six major pipeline companies and contracts with four commodity suppliers. Collectively, these contracts have various expiration dates ranging from 2007 through 2013. Missouri Gas Energy and New England Gas Company have firm supply commitments for all areas that are supplied with gas purchased under short- and long-term arrangements. Missouri Gas Energy and New England Gas Company hold contract rights to over 17 Bcf and one Bcf of storage capacity, respectively, to assist in meeting peak demands. Like the gas industry as a whole, Southern Union utilizes gas sales and/or transportation contracts with interruption provisions, by which large volume users purchase gas with the understanding that they may be forced to shut down or switch to alternate sources of energy at times when the gas is needed by higher priority customers for load management. In addition, during times of special supply problems, curtailments of deliveries to customers with firm contracts may be made in accordance with guidelines established by appropriate federal and state regulatory agencies. Regulation and Rates The Company’s utilities are regulated as to rates, operations and other matters by the regulatory commissions of the states in which each operates. In Missouri, natural gas rates are established by the MPSC on a system-wide basis. In Massachusetts, natural gas rates for New England Gas Company are subject to the regulatory authority of the MDTE. For additional information concerning recent state and federal regulatory developments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 - Regulation and Rates. The Company holds non-exclusive franchises with varying expiration dates in all incorporated communities where it is necessary to carry on its business as it is now being conducted. Fall River, Massachusetts; Kansas City, Missouri; and St. Joseph, Missouri are the largest cities in which the Company's utility customers are located. The franchise in Kansas City, Missouri expires in 2010. The Company fully expects this franchise to be renewed prior to its expiration. The franchises in Fall River, Massachusetts and St. Joseph, Missouri are perpetual. Regulatory authorities establish gas service rates so as to permit utilities the opportunity to recover operating, administrative and financing costs, and the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on equity. Gas costs are billed to customers through purchase gas adjustment clauses, which permit the Company to adjust its sales price as the cost of purchased gas changes. This is important because the cost of natural gas accounts for a significant portion of the Company's total expenses. The appropriate regulatory authority must receive notice of such adjustments prior to billing implementation. The Company supports any service rate changes that it proposes to its regulators using an historic test year of operating results adjusted to normal conditions and for any known and measurable revenue or expense changes. Because the regulatory process has certain inherent time delays, rate orders in these jurisdictions may not reflect the operating costs at the time new rates are put into effect. The Company’s monthly customer bills contain a fixed service charge, a usage charge for service to deliver gas, and a charge for the amount of natural gas used. Although the monthly fixed charge provides an even revenue stream, the usage charge increases the Company's annual revenue and earnings in the traditional heating load months when usage of natural gas increases. In addition to the regulation of its utility businesses, the Company is affected by other regulations, including pipeline safety regulations under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, safety regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act and various state and federal environmental statutes and regulations. The Company believes that its utility operations are in material compliance with applicable safety and environmental statutes and regulations. 12 The following table summarizes the rate proceedings applicable to the Distribution segment: Date of Last Utility Operations Rate Filing Status Missouri May 2006 MPSC is expected to issue a ruling in first quarter 2007 on proposed rate increase filed in May 2006. Massachusetts May 1996 Effective December 1996; Filed notice of intent with MDTE in June 2006 to file rate schedules. Competition As energy providers, Missouri Gas Energy and New England Gas Company historically have competed with alternative energy sources available to end-users in their service areas, particularly electricity, propane, fuel oil, coal, natural gas liquids and other refined products. At present rates, the cost of electricity to residential and commercial customers in the Company's regulated utility service areas generally is higher than the effective cost of natural gas service. There can be no assurance, however, that future fluctuations in gas and electric costs will not reduce the cost advantage of natural gas service. Competition between the use of fuel oils, natural gas and propane, particularly by industrial and electric generation customers, has increased due to the volatility of natural gas prices and increased marketing efforts from various energy companies. Competition among the use of fuel oils, natural gas and propane is generally greater in the Company’s Massachusetts service area than in its Missouri service area. Nevertheless, this competition affects the nationwide market for natural gas. Additionally, the general economic conditions in the Company's regulated utility service areas continue to affect certain customers and market areas, thus impacting the results of the Company's operations. The Company’s regulated utility operations are not currently in significant direct competition with any other distributors of natural gas to residential and small commercial customers within their service areas. OTHER MATTERS Environmental The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental impacts. The Company has established procedures for the ongoing evaluation of its operations to identify potential environmental exposures. These procedures are designed to achieve compliance with such laws and regulations. For additional information concerning the impact of environmental regulation on the Company, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies. Insurance The Company maintains insurance coverage provided under its policies similar to other comparable companies in the same lines of business. The insurance policies are subject to terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions that do not fully compensate the Company for all losses. Insurance deductibles range from $100,000 to $5 million for the various policies utilized by the Company. Furthermore, as the Company renews its policies, it is possible that full insurance coverage may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms due to recent more restrictive insurance markets. 13 Employees As of January 31, 2007, the Company had 2,312 employees, of whom 1,503 are paid on an hourly basis and 809 are paid on a salary basis. Of the 1,503 hourly paid employees, unions represent 51 percent. The table below sets forth the number of employees represented by unions for each division, as well as the expiration dates of the current contracts with the respective bargaining units. Number of employees Expiration of Company Represented by Unions Current Contract PEPL USW Local 348 218 May 27, 2009 Missouri Gas Energy Gas Workers 781 199 April 30, 2009 IBEW Local 53 99 April 30, 2009 USW Local 5-267 25 April 30, 2009 USW Local 12561, 14228 145 April 30, 2009 New England Gas Company UWUA Local 431 76 April 30, 2010 As of January 31, 2007, the number of persons employed by each segment was as follows: Transportation and Storage segment -1,122 persons; Gathering and Processing segment - 288 persons; Distribution segment - 797 persons; All Other subsidiary operations - 13 persons. In addition, the corporate employees of Southern Union totaled 92 persons. The employees of Florida Gas are not employees of Southern Union or its segments and, therefore, were not considered in the employee statistics noted above. As of January 31, 2007, Florida Gas had 292 non-union employees. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are good. From time to time, however, the Company may be subject to labor disputes. The Company did not experience any strikes or work stoppages during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the six-month period ended December 31, 2004 or the year ended June 30, 2004. Available Information Southern Union files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as required. Any document that Southern Union files with the SEC may be read or copied at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. Southern Union’s SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov and through Southern Union’s website at http://www.sug.com. The information on Southern Union’s website is not incorporated by reference into and is not made a part of this report. Southern Union, by and through the audit committee of its board of directors, has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (Code) designed to reflect requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, New York Stock Exchange rules and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Code applies to all of the Company’s directors, officers and employees. Any amendment to the Code will be posted promptly on Southern Union’s website. 14 Southern Union, by and through the corporate governance committee of its board of directors, also has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines (Guidelines). The Guidelines set forth the responsibilities and standards under which the major board committees and management shall function. The Code, the Guidelines and the charters of the audit, corporate governance, compensation and finance committees are posted on the Corporate Governance section of Southern Union’s website under “Governance Documents” and are available free of charge by calling Southern Union at (713) 989-2000 or by writing to: Southern Union Company Attn: Corporate Secretary 5444 Westheimer Road Houston, TX 77056 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that it is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may become important factors that affect it. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS THAT RELATE TO SOUTHERN UNION Southern Union has substantial debt and depends on its ability to access the capital markets. Southern Union has a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, consolidated debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet totaled $3.3 billion outstanding compared to total capitalization (long and short-term debt plus stockholders' equity) of $5.3 billion. Some of the Company’s debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest coverage ratios. The Company’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or render the Company unable to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration could cause a material adverse change in the Company’s financial condition. The Company relies on access to both short-term and long-term credit as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from its operations. Any worsening of the Company’s financial condition or a material decrease in its common stock price could hamper its ability to access the capital markets. External events also could increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access the capital markets. Further, because of the need for certain state regulatory approvals in order to incur debt and issue capital stock, the Company may not be able to access the capital markets on a timely basis. Restrictions on the Company’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its business plan or limit its ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions on which it may otherwise rely for future growth. The Company plans to refinance its current debt of $462.3 million outstanding at December 31, 2006 with proceeds from bank financings. The Company is in the final stages of planning for the refinancing of debt coming due in March 2007. While an inability to repay these obligations could cause a material adverse change to the Company’s financial condition, the Company reasonably believes that it has the ability to refinance these obligations within the required timeframes, although there can be no assurances that the anticipated refinancings will occur. Credit ratings downgrades would increase the Company’s financing costs and limit its ability to access the capital markets. As of December 31, 2006, both Southern Union’s and Panhandle’s debt are currently rated Baa3 by Moody's Investor Services, Inc., BBB- by Standard & Poor's and BBB by Fitch Ratings. If its current credit ratings are downgraded below investment grade or if there are times when it is placed on "credit watch," both borrowing costs and the costs of maintaining certain contractual relationships could increase. Lower credit ratings could also adversely affect relationships with state regulators, who may be unwilling to allow the Company to pass along increased debt service costs to natural gas customers. 15 The Company’s growth strategy entails risk for investors. The Company intends to actively pursue acquisitions in the energy industry to complement and diversify its existing businesses. As part of its growth strategy, Southern Union may: · examine and potentially acquire regulated or unregulated businesses, including transportation and storage assets and gathering and processing businesses within the natural gas industry; · enter into joint venture agreements and/or other transactions with other industry participants or financial investors; · selectively divest parts of its business, including parts of its core operations; and · continue expanding its existing operations. The Company’s ability to acquire new businesses will depend upon the extent to which opportunities become available, as well as, among other things: · its success in bidding for the opportunities; · its ability to assess the risks of the opportunities; · its ability to obtain regulatory approvals on favorable terms; and · its access to financing on acceptable terms. Once acquired, the Company’s ability to integrate a new business into its existing operations successfully will depend on the adequacy of implementation plans, including the ability to identify and retain employees to manage the acquired business, and the ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies. The successful integration of any businesses acquired in the future may entail numerous risks, including, among others: · the risk of diverting management's attention from day-to-day operations; · the risk that the acquired businesses will require substantial capital and financial investments; · the risk that the investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations; or · the risk of substantial difficulties in the transition and integration process. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. Additionally, if the Company expands its existing operations, the success of any such expansion is subject to substantial risk and may expose the Company to significant costs. The Company cannot assure that its development or construction efforts will be successful. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects the Company’s financial results. To the extent it issues shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions or expansions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. The Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet its needs. The Company is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends, loans, advances or other distributions from, its subsidiaries and joint ventures to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. The availability of distributions from such entities is subject to their earnings and capital requirements, the satisfaction of various covenants and conditions contained in financing documents by which they are bound or in their organizational documents, and in the case of the regulated subsidiaries, regulatory restrictions that limit their ability to distribute profits to Southern Union. 16 The Company owns 100 percent of CCE Holdings as of December 1, 2006 and CCE Holdings owns 50 percent of Citrus, the holding company for Florida Gas. As such, the Company cannot control or guarantee the receipt of distributions from Florida Gas through Citrus. The Company is subject to operating risks. The Company’s operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with natural gas or natural gas liquid products, including explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires and other hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction of its facilities or damage to persons and property. If any of these events were to occur, the Company could suffer substantial losses. Moreover, as a result, the Company has been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company maintains insurance coverage, such coverage may be inadequate to protect the Company from all material expenses related to these risks. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business that may increase its costs of operation, expose it to environmental liabilities and require it to make material unbudgeted expenditures. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business (including air emissions). These laws and regulations are complex and have tended to become increasingly strict over time. These laws and regulations have necessitated, and in the future may necessitate, increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In addition, certain environmental laws can impose liability without regard to fault concerning contamination at a broad range of properties, including those currently or formerly owned, leased or operated properties and properties where the Company disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of waste. The Company is currently monitoring or remediating contamination at a number of its facilities and at third party waste disposal sites pursuant to environmental laws and regulations and indemnification agreements. The Company cannot predict with certainty the sites for which it may be responsible, the amount of resulting cleanup obligations that may be imposed on it or the amount and timing of future expenditures related to environmental remediation because of the difficulty of estimating cleanup costs and the uncertainty of payment by other potentially responsible parties. Costs and obligations also can arise from claims for toxic torts and natural resource damages or from releases of hazardous materials on other properties as a result of ongoing operations or disposal of waste. Compliance with amended, new or more stringently enforced existing environmental requirements, or the future discovery of contamination, may require material unbudgeted expenditures. These costs or expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if such costs or expenditures are not fully recoverable from insurance or through the rates charged to customers or if they exceed any amounts that have been reserved. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, have resulted in increased costs, and the consequences of the War on Terror and the Iraq conflict may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The impact that terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001, may have on the energy industry in general, and on the Company in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military activity may affect the Company’s operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, LNG facilities, gathering facilities and processing plants, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or a retaliatory strike. The Company may have to incur significant additional costs in the future to safeguard its physical assets. The Internal Revenue Service may challenge the like-kind exchange treatment the Company has taken or expects to take. Effective August 25, 2006, the Company consummated a like-kind exchange under Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 (Section 1031) by using the proceeds from the sale of the assets of its PG Energy natural gas distribution division and the sale of the Rhode Island operations of its New England Gas Company natural gas distribution division, to acquire the assets of the Sid Richardson Energy Services business. If like-kind exchange treatment were not to apply to these transactions, most of the tax gain realized with respect to these asset sales would be recognized currently. The like-kind exchange rules of the Internal Revenue Code are highly complex and their application to the asset sales and the acquisition of the assets of the Sid Richardson Energy Services business is not certain. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully denied the benefits of Section 1031, the Company could be required to pay approximately $263 million of additional income tax (before any interest or penalty) for the 2006 taxable year. Under such circumstances, the Company expects that it would be entitled to a corresponding income tax benefit of $263 million over time due to additional depreciation deductions from the Sid Richardson Energy Services assets as a result of the higher tax basis in such assets that would exist if the benefits of Section 1031 were not available. 17 The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends, in part, on factors beyond the Company’s control. Third parties own most of the natural gas transported and stored through the pipeline systems operated by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Additionally, third parties produce all the natural gas or natural gas liquid products gathered and processed by Southern Union Gas Services. As a result, the volume of natural gas transported, stored, gathered or processed depends on the actions of those third parties and is beyond the Company’s control. Further, other factors beyond the Company’s control may unfavorably impact its ability to maintain or increase current transmission, storage, gathering or processing rates, to renegotiate existing contracts as they expire or to remarket unsubscribed capacity. The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends on the continued development of additional natural gas reserves in the vicinity of their facilities and their ability to access additional reserves to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to their systems. The amount of revenue generated by Panhandle and Florida Gas ultimately depends upon its access to the reserves of available natural gas. Additionally, the amount of revenue generated by Southern Union Gas Services depends substantially upon the volume of natural gas or natural gas liquid products gathered and processed. As the reserves available through the supply basins connected to these systems naturally decline, a decrease in development or production activity could cause a decrease in the volume of natural gas available for transmission, gathering or processing. Investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves connected to the Company’s facilities depend on many factors beyond the control of the Company. The pipeline and gathering and processing business revenues are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. The revenues of Panhandle, Florida Gas and Southern Union Gas Services are generated under contracts that expire periodically. Although the Company will actively pursue the renegotiation, extension and/or replacement of all of its contracts, it cannot assure that it will be able to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or that the terms of any renegotiated contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If the Company is unable to renew, extend or replace these contracts, or if the Company renews them on less favorable terms, the Company may suffer a material reduction in revenues and earnings. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE BUSINESS The Company’s transportation and storage business is highly regulated. The Company’s transportation and storage business is subject to regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities. FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and local regulatory agencies regulate the interstate pipeline business. In particular, FERC regulates services provided and rates charged by Panhandle and Florida Gas. In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard has oversight over certain issues related to the importation of LNG. The Company’s rates and operations are subject to regulation by federal regulators as well as the actions of Congress and state legislatures and, in some respects, state regulators. The Company cannot predict or control what effect future actions of regulatory agencies may have on its business or its access to the capital markets. Furthermore, the nature and degree of regulation of natural gas companies has changed significantly during the past 25 years and there is no assurance that further substantial changes will not occur or that existing policies and rules will not be applied in a new or different manner. 18 Should new regulatory requirements regarding the security of its pipeline system or new accounting requirements for certain entities be imposed, the Company could be subject to additional costs that could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations if these costs are deemed unrecoverable in rates. See information concerning a complaint filed against Southwest Gas Storage under Section 5 of the Natural Gas Act in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 - Regulation and Rates. The pipeline businesses are subject to competition. The interstate pipeline businesses of Panhandle and Florida Gas compete with those of other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service and the flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to the Company’s customers and end-users, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the demand for natural gas in the areas served by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Substantial risks are involved in operating a natural gas pipeline system. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a complex pipeline system. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency, the collision of equipment with pipeline facilities (such as may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near the facilities) and other catastrophic events beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the Company’s pipeline system, especially those portions that are located offshore, may be subject to adverse weather conditions including hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, extreme temperatures and other natural phenomena, making it more difficult for the Company to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect the pipeline businesses. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to the pipeline systems of Panhandle and Florida Gas are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, especially Canada, the volume of gas transported by the Company may be negatively impacted. The pipeline businesses are dependent on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of their sales. Panhandle’s top three customers accounted for 46 percent of its 2006 revenue. Florida Gas’ top two customers accounted for 58 percent of its 2006 revenue. The loss of any one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation. The Company is exposed to the credit risk of its transportation and storage customers in the ordinary course of business. Transportation service contracts obligate customers to pay charges for reservation of capacity, or reservation charges, regardless of whether they transport natural gas on the pipeline system. As a result, the Company’s profitability will depend upon the continued financial performance and creditworthiness of its customers rather than just upon the amount of capacity provided under service contracts. Generally, customers are rated investment grade or, as permitted by the Company’s tariff, are required to make pre-payments or deposits, or to provide collateral, if their creditworthiness does not meet certain criteria. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers' creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. 19 RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S NATURAL GAS GATHERING AND PROCESSING BUSINESS The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business is unregulated. Unlike the Company’s returns on its regulated transportation and distribution businesses, the natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and processing operations conducted at Southern Union Gas Services are not regulated and may potentially have a higher level of risk than the Company’s regulated operations. Although Southern Union Gas Services operates in an unregulated market, the business is subject to certain regulatory risks, most notably environmental and safety regulations. Moreover, the Company cannot predict when additional legislation or regulation might affect the gathering and processing industry, nor the impact of any such changes on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business is subject to competition. The natural gas gathering and processing industry is expected to remain highly competitive. Most customers of Southern Union Gas Services have access to more than one alternative gathering and/or processing system. The Company’s ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including the infrastructure and contracting strategy of competitors in the Company’s gathering region; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the Company’s system; and the Company’s ability to maintain a reliable low-cost pipeline operating system. In addition to Southern Union Gas Services’ current competitive position in the natural gas gathering and processing industry, its business is subject to pricing risks associated with changes in the supply of and the demand for natural gas and liquid byproducts. If natural gas or natural gas liquid products prices in the supply basins connected to the Company’s gathering system are comparatively higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, the volume of gas that Southern Union Gas Services chooses to process may be reduced to maximize returns to the Company. Similarly, since the demand for natural gas or natural gas liquid products is primarily a function of commodity prices (including prices for alternative energy sources), customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs, the volume processed by Southern Union Gas Services may be reduced based on these market conditions on a daily basis after analysis by the Company. The Company’s profit margin in the natural gas gathering and processing business is highly dependent on energy commodity prices. Southern Union Gas Services’ fees are typically charged either (a) as a percentage of the volume of gas gathered and natural gas liquids processed through its facilities, or (b) for a specified fee for a range of services provided. The purchase price for the gas gathered and natural gas liquids processed by the Company is based on a market clearing index (typically a daily price) and is matched with the price at which the gas and liquids are ultimately sold to its market customers on the same basis. Therefore, Southern Union Gas Services’ operating margin is highly dependent on energy commodity prices. The Company uses various derivative financial instruments to manage commodity price risk and to take advantage of pricing anomalies among derivative financial instruments related to natural gas and natural gas liquids. The Company uses a combination of fixed price physical forward contracts, exchange-traded futures and options, fixed for floating index and basis swaps to manage commodity price risk. These derivative financial instruments allow the Company to preserve value and protect margins because changes in the value of the derivative financial instruments are highly effective in offsetting changes in the physical market and reducing basis risk. Basis risk exists primarily due to price differentials between cash market delivery locations and futures contract delivery locations. However, these financial derivative instrument contracts do not entirely eliminate pricing risks. Specifically, the Company is subject to other risks including un-hedged commodity price changes, market supply shortages and customer defaults. The impact of these variables could result in the Company paying higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts. For information related to derivative financial instruments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - Gathering and Processing Segment. 20 Operational risks are involved in operating a natural gas gathering and processing business. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a natural gas gathering and processing business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of processing facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business accepts some credit risk in dealing with customers. Southern Union Gas Services derives its revenues from customers engaged primarily in the natural gas and utilities industries and extends payment credit to these customers. Southern Union Gas Services’ accounts receivable primarily consists of mid- to large-size domestic customers with credit ratings of investment grade or better. Moreover, Southern Union Gas Services maintains trading relationships with counterparties that include reputable U.S. broker-dealers and other financial institutions and evaluates the ability of each counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivatives agreement. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers’ creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. The inability to continue to access independently owned and publicly owned lands could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate and/or expand its natural gas gathering and processing business. Southern Union Gas Services’ ability to operate within its operating region will depend on its success in maintaining existing rights-of-way and obtaining new right-of-way grants. Securing additional rights-of-way is also critical to Southern Union Gas Services’ ability to pursue expansion projects. Southern Union Gas Services cannot assure that it will be able to acquire new rights-of-way or maintain access to existing rights-of-way upon the expiration of the current grants. The Company’s financial position could be adversely affected if the costs of new or extended right-of-way grants exceed the margin within a gathering region. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS The distribution business is highly regulated and the Company’s revenues, operating results and financial condition may fluctuate with the distribution business’ ability to achieve timely and effective rate relief from state regulators. The Company’s distribution business is subject to regulation by the MPSC and the MDTE. These authorities regulate many aspects of the Company’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that can be charged customers and the maximum rates of return that the Company is allowed to realize. The ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. The distribution business is influenced by fluctuations in costs, including operating costs such as insurance, postretirement and other benefit costs, wages, changes in the provision for the allowance for doubtful accounts associated with volatile natural gas costs and other operating costs. The profitability of regulated operations depends on the business’ ability to pass through to its customers costs related to providing them service. To the extent that such operating costs increase in an amount greater than that for which rate recovery is allowed, this differential could impact operating results until the business files for and is allowed an increase in rates. The lag between an increase in costs and the rate relief obtained from the regulators can have a direct negative impact on operating results. As with any request for an increase in rates in a regulatory filing, once granted, the rate increase may not be adequate. In addition, regulators may prevent the business from passing along some costs in the form of higher rates. 21 The distribution business’ operating results and liquidity needs are seasonal in nature and may fluctuate based on weather conditions and natural gas prices. The gas distribution business is a seasonal business and is subject to weather conditions. A significant percentage of annual revenues and earnings occur in the traditional winter heating season when demand for natural gas usually increases due to colder weather conditions. The business is also subject to seasonal and other variations in working capital due to changes in natural gas prices and the fact that customers pay for the natural gas delivered to them after they use it, whereas the business is required to pay for the natural gas before delivery. As a result, fluctuations in weather between years may have a significant effect on results of operations and cash flows. In years with warm winters, revenues may be adversely affected. Operational risks are involved in operating a natural gas distribution business. Numerous risks are associated with the operations of a natural gas distribution business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of processing facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, Southern Union also provides forward-looking statements in other materials it releases to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give the Company’s current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Southern Union has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated services, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Southern Union cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although management believes that the Company has been prudent in its plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties should materialize, or if underlying assumptions should prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Readers should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. Southern Union undertakes no obligation to update publicly forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company makes on related subjects in its Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that Southern Union provides the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to its businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, management believes could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Southern Union notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, readers should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. 22 Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · changes in demand for natural gas by the Company’s customers, the composition of the Company’s customer base and the sources of natural gas available to the Company; · the effects of inflation and the timing and extent of changes in the prices and overall demand for and availability of natural gas or natural gas liquid products as well as electricity, oil, coal and other bulk materials and chemicals; · adverse weather conditions, such as warmer than normal weather in the Company’s service territories, and the operational impact of natural disasters such as hurricanes; · changes in laws or regulations, third-party relations and approvals, decisions of courts, regulators and governmental bodies affecting or involving Southern Union, including deregulation initiatives and the impact of rate and tariff proceedings before FERC and various state regulatory commissions; · the speed and degree to which additional competition is introduced to Southern Union’s business and the resulting effect on revenues; · the outcome of pending and future litigation; · the Company’s ability to comply with or to challenge successfully existing or new environmental regulations; · unanticipated environmental liabilities; · risks relating to Southern Union’s recent acquisition of the Sid Richardson Energy Services business, including without limitation, the Company’s increased exposure to highly competitive commodity businesses; · the Company’s ability to acquire new businesses and assets and integrate those operations into its existing operations, as well as its ability to expand its existing businesses and facilities; · the Company’s ability to control costs successfully and achieve operating efficiencies, including the purchase and implementation of new technologies for achieving such efficiencies; · the impact of factors affecting operations such as maintenance or repairs, environmental incidents, gas pipeline system constraints and relations with labor unions representing bargaining-unit employees; · exposure to customer concentration with a significant portion of revenues realized from a relatively small number of customers and any credit risks associated with the financial position of those customers; · changes in the ratings of the debt securities of Southern Union or any of its subsidiaries; · changes in interest rates and other general capital markets conditions, and in the Company’s ability to continue to access the capital markets; · acts of nature, sabotage, terrorism or other acts causing damage greater than the Company’s insurance coverage limits; · market risks beyond the Company’s control affecting its risk management activities including market liquidity, commodity price volatility and counterparty creditworthiness; and · other risks and unforeseen events. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N/A ITEM 