ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may become important factors that affect it. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS THAT RELATE TO SOUTHERN UNION Southern Union has substantial debt and may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of deterioration in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent Southern Union from meeting its future capital needs. Southern Union has a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2009, consolidated debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet totaled $3.6 billion outstanding, compared to total capitalization (long and short-term debt plus stockholders' equity) of $6.1 billion. 16 Some of the Company’s debt obligations contain financial covenants concerning debt-to-capital ratios and interest coverage ratios. The Company’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or render it unable to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration or inability to borrow could cause a material adverse change in the Company’s financial condition. The Company relies on access to both short- and long-term credit as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from its operations. A deterioration in the Company’s financial condition could hamper its ability to access the capital markets. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and may continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and may continue to make, obtaining funding more difficult. As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, the Company cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and, to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Company may be unable to grow its existing business, complete acquisitions, refinance its debt or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and results of operations. Further, because of the need for certain state regulatory approvals in order to incur long-term debt and issue capital stock, the Company may not be able to access the capital markets on a timely basis. Restrictions on the Company’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its business plan or limit its ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions on which it may otherwise rely for future growth. See additional related information in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financial Sector Exposure. Credit ratings downgrades could increase the Company’s financing costs and limit its ability to access the capital markets. As of December 31, 2009, both Southern Union’s and Panhandle’s debt are rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings, Baa3 by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and BBB- by Standard & Poor's. If the Company’s credit ratings are downgraded below investment grade or if there are times when it is placed on "credit watch," both borrowing costs and the costs of maintaining certain contractual relationships could increase. Lower credit ratings could also adversely affect the Distribution segment’s relationships with state regulators, who may be unwilling to allow the Company to pass along increased debt service costs to natural gas customers. The financial soundness of the Company’s customers could affect its business and operating results. As a result of the recent disruptions in the financial markets and other macroeconomic challenges that have impacted the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, the Company’s customers may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, if customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to the Company. Any inability of the Company’s customers to pay for services could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 The Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet its needs. The Company is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends, loans, advances or other distributions from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. The availability of distributions from such entities is subject to their earnings and capital requirements, the satisfaction of various covenants and conditions contained in financing documents by which they are bound or in their organizational documents, and in the case of the regulated subsidiaries, regulatory restrictions that limit their ability to distribute profits to Southern Union. The Company owns 50 percent of Citrus, the holding company for Florida Gas. As such, the Company cannot control or guarantee the receipt of distributions from Florida Gas through Citrus. The Company’s growth strategy entails risk for investors. The Company may actively pursue acquisitions in the energy industry to complement and diversify its existing businesses. As part of its growth strategy, Southern Union may: · examine and potentially acquire regulated or unregulated businesses, including transportation and storage assets and gathering and processing businesses within the natural gas industry; · enter into joint venture agreements and/or other transactions with other industry participants or financial investors; · selectively divest parts of its business, including parts of its core operations; and · continue expanding its existing operations. The Company’s ability to acquire new businesses will depend upon the extent to which opportunities become available, as well as, among other things: · its success in valuing and bidding for the opportunities; · its ability to assess the risks of the opportunities; · its ability to obtain regulatory approvals on favorable terms; and · its access to financing on acceptable terms. Once acquired, the Company’s ability to integrate a new business into its existing operations successfully will largely depend on the adequacy of implementation plans, including the ability to identify and retain employees to manage the acquired business, and the ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies. The successful integration of any businesses acquired in the future may entail numerous risks, including: · the risk of diverting management's attention from day-to-day operations; · the risk that the acquired businesses will require substantial capital and financial investments; · the risk that the investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations; and · the risk of substantial difficulties in the transition and integration process. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects the Company’s financial results. To the extent it issues shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions or expansions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. The Company is subject to operating risks. The Company’s operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with natural gas or NGL, including adverse weather conditions, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires and other hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction of its facilities or damage to persons and property. If any of these events were to occur, the Company could suffer substantial losses. Moreover, as a result, the Company has been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company maintains insurance coverage, such coverage may be inadequate to protect the Company from all expenses related to these risks. 18 Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, have resulted in increased costs, and the consequences of terrorism may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The impact that terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001, may have on the energy industry in general, and on the Company in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military activity may affect the Company’s operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, LNG facilities, gathering facilities and processing plants, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or a retaliatory strike. The Company may have to incur significant additional costs in the future to safeguard its physical assets. The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends, in part, on factors beyond the Company’s control. Third parties own most of the natural gas transported and stored through the pipeline systems operated by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Additionally, third parties produce all of the natural gas gathered and processed by SUGS, and third parties provide all of the NGL transportation and fractionation services for SUGS. As a result, the volume of natural gas or NGL transported, stored, gathered, processed or fractionated depends on the actions of those third parties and is beyond the Company’s control. Further, other factors beyond the Company’s and those third parties’ control may unfavorably impact the Company’s ability to maintain or increase current transmission, storage, gathering or processing rates, to renegotiate existing contracts as they expire or to remarket unsubscribed capacity. High utilization of contracted capacity by firm customers reduces capacity available for interruptible transportation and parking services. The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends on the continued development of additional natural gas reserves in the vicinity of their facilities and their ability to access additional reserves to offset the natural decline from existing sources connected to their systems. The amount of revenue generated by Panhandle and Florida Gas ultimately depends upon their access to reserves of available natural gas. Additionally, the amount of revenue generated by SUGS depends substantially upon the volume of natural gas gathered and processed and NGL extracted. As the reserves available through the supply basins connected to these systems naturally decline, a decrease in development or production activity could cause a decrease in the volume of natural gas available for transmission, gathering or processing. If production from these natural gas reserves is substantially reduced and not replaced with other sources of natural gas, such as new wells or interconnections with other pipelines, and certain of the Company’s assets are consequently not utilized, the Company may have to accelerate the recognition and settlement of AROs. Investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves or other sources of natural gas in proximity to the Company’s facilities depend on many factors beyond the Company’s control. Revenue reductions or the acceleration of AROs resulting from the decline of natural gas reserves and the lack of new sources of natural gas may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The pipeline and gathering and processing businesses revenues are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. The revenues of Panhandle, Florida Gas and SUGS are generated under contracts that expire periodically and must be replaced. Although the Company will actively pursue the renegotiation, extension and/or replacement of all of its contracts, it cannot assure that it will be able to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or that the terms of any renegotiated contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If the Company is unable to renew, extend or replace these contracts, or if the Company renews them on less favorable terms, it may suffer a material reduction in revenues and earnings. 19 The expansion of the Company’s pipeline and gathering and processing systems by constructing new facilities subjects the Company to construction and other risks that may adversely affect the financial results of the Company’s pipeline and gathering and processing businesses. The Company may expand the capacity of its existing pipeline, storage, LNG, and gathering and processing facilities by constructing additional facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: · the Company’s ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from FERC and other regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to it; · the ability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund expansion projects, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline; · the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; · adverse weather conditions; · potential changes in federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and orders, including environmental requirements that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; · impediments on the Company’s ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis or on terms that are acceptable to it; · the Company’s ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that the Company may incur cost overruns, which may be material, resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, contractor productivity or other factors beyond its control, that the Company may not be able to recover from its customers; · the lack of future growth in natural gas supply and/or demand; and · the lack of transportation, storage or throughput commitments or gathering and processing commitments. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. There is also the risk that a downturn in the economy and its potential negative impact upon natural gas demand could result in either slower development in the Company’s expansion projects or adjustments in the contractual commitments supporting such projects. As a result, new facilities could be delayed or may not achieve the Company’s expected investment return, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The inability to continue to access lands owned by third parties could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate and/or expand its pipeline and gathering and processing businesses. The ability of Panhandle, Florida Gas or SUGS to operate in certain geographic areas will depend on their success in maintaining existing rights-of-way and obtaining new rights-of-way. Securing additional rights-of-way is also critical to the Company’s ability to pursue expansion projects. Even for Panhandle and Florida Gas, which generally have the right of eminent domain, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to acquire all of the necessary new rights-of-way or maintain access to existing rights-of-way upon the expiration of the current rights-of-way or that all of the rights-of-way will be obtainable in a timely fashion. The Company’s financial position could be adversely affected if the costs of new or extended rights-of-way materially increase or the Company is unable to obtain or extend the rights-of-way timely. Federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge the Company’s tax return positions. The positions taken by the Company in its tax return filings require significant judgment, use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. Despite management’s belief that the Company’s tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be challenged successfully by federal, state and local jurisdictions. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business that may increase its costs of operation, expose it to environmental liabilities and require it to make material unbudgeted expenditures. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business (including air emissions), which are complex, change from time to time and have tended to become increasingly strict. These laws and regulations have necessitated, and in the future may necessitate, increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In addition, certain environmental laws may result in liability without regard to fault concerning contamination at a broad range of properties, including currently or formerly owned, leased or operated properties and properties where the Company disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, waste. The Company is currently monitoring or remediating contamination at several of its facilities and at waste disposal sites pursuant to environmental laws and regulations and indemnification agreements. The Company cannot predict with certainty the sites for which it may be responsible, the amount of resulting cleanup obligations that may be imposed on it or the amount and timing of future expenditures related to environmental remediation because of the difficulty of estimating cleanup costs and the uncertainty of payment by other PRPs. Costs and obligations also can arise from claims for toxic torts and natural resource damages or from releases of hazardous materials on other properties as a result of ongoing operations or disposal of waste. Compliance with amended, new or more stringently enforced existing environmental requirements, or the future discovery of contamination, may require material unbudgeted expenditures. These costs or expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, particularly if such costs or expenditures are not fully recoverable from insurance or through the rates charged to customers or if they exceed any amounts that have been reserved. 20 A recent determination that emissions of carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health could result in regulatory initiatives that increase the Company’s costs of doing business and the costs of its services. On April 17, 2009, the EPA issued a notice of its proposed finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other “greenhouse gases” (GHGs) presented an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases contribute to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Once finalized, EPA’s finding and determination would allow the agency to begin regulating GHG emissions under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, EPA announced two sets of proposed regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings and determination, one rule to reduce emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other to control emissions of GHGs from stationary sources. The motor vehicle rules are expected to be adopted in March 2010, with the stationary source permitting rule to be approved later in 2010. It may take the EPA several years to impose regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from existing stationary sources due to legal challenges on the stationary rule. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including the Company’s processing plants and many compressor stations, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Any limitation imposed by the EPA on GHG emissions from the Company’s natural gas–fired compressor stations and processing facilities or from the combustion of natural gas or natural gas liquids that it produces could increase its costs of doing business and/or increase the cost and reduce demand for its services. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products and services the Company provides. The Kyoto Protocol was adopted in 1997 by the United Nations to address global climate change by reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The treaty went into effect on February 16, 2005. The United States has not adopted the Kyoto Protocol. However, on June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” (ACESA), which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program in the United States to reduce emissions of GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. ACESA would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17 percent (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80 percent by 2050. Under ACESA, covered sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, natural gas and NGLs. The United States Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACESA, the two versions of the bill would need to be reconciled in both chambers of Congress and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it would become law. President Obama has indicated that he is in support of the adoption of legislation to control and reduce emissions of GHGs through an emission allowance permitting system that results in fewer allowances being issued each year but that allows parties to buy, sell and trade allowances as needed to fulfill their GHG emission obligations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill approved by the Senate could be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require the Company to incur increased operating costs. Further, current or future rate structures or shipper or producer contracts and prevailing market conditions might not allow the Company to recover the additional costs incurred to comply with such laws and/or regulations and may affect the Company’s ability to provide services. While the Company may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in its rate structures or shipper or producer contracts, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond the Company’s control. Such matters could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s gathering, treating, processing, distribution or transportation services. 21 Even if such legislation is not adopted at the national level, more than one-third of the states have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of GHGs, with most of the state-level initiatives focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as coal-fired electric plants. It is possible that smaller sources of emissions could become subject to GHG emission limitations or allowance purchase requirements in the future. Any one of these climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to risks associated with climate change. It has been advanced that emissions of greenhouse gases are linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impact and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect the Company’s business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs it incurs in providing its products and services, including costs to operate and maintain its facilities, install new emission controls on its facilities, acquire allowances to authorize its GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program, higher insurance premiums or the potential for increased insurance claims in areas affected by adverse weather and coastal regions in the event of rising sea levels, the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which it operates, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE BUSINESS The Company’s transportation and storage business is highly regulated. The Company’s transportation and storage business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and local regulatory agencies regulate the interstate pipeline business. In particular, FERC has authority to regulate rates charged by Panhandle and Florida Gas for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. FERC also has authority over the construction, acquisition, operation and disposition of these pipeline and storage assets. In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard has oversight over certain issues including the importation of LNG. The Company’s rates and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal regulators as well as the actions of Congress and state legislatures and, in some respects, state regulators. The Company cannot predict or control what effect future actions of regulatory agencies may have on its business or its access to the capital markets. Furthermore, the nature and degree of regulation of natural gas companies has changed significantly during the past several decades and there is no assurance that further substantial changes will not occur or that existing policies and rules will not be applied in a new or different manner. Should new and more stringent regulatory requirements be imposed, the Company’s business could be unfavorably impacted and the Company could be subject to additional costs that could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations if these costs are not ultimately recovered through rates. The Company’s transportation and storage business is influenced by fluctuations in costs, including operating costs such as insurance, postretirement and other benefit costs, wages, outside contractor services costs, asset retirement obligations for certain assets and other operating costs. The profitability of regulated operations depends on the business’ ability to collect such increased costs as a part of the rates charged to its customers. To the extent that such operating costs increase in an amount greater than that for which revenue is received, or for which rate recovery is allowed, this differential could impact operating results. The lag between an increase in costs and the ability of the Company to file to obtain rate relief from FERC to recover those increased costs can have a direct negative impact on operating results. As with any request for an increase in rates in a regulatory filing, once granted, the rate increase may not be adequate. In addition, FERC may prevent the business from passing along certain costs in the form of higher rates. 22 FERC may also exercise its Section 5 authority to initiate proceedings to review rates that it believes may not be just and reasonable. FERC has recently exercised this authority with respect to several other pipeline companies, as it had in 2007 with respect to the Company’s Southwest Gas Storage Company. If FERC were to initiate a Section 5 proceeding against the Company and find that the Company’s rates at that time were not just and reasonable, the applicable rates the Company is allowed to charge customers could be reduced and the reduction could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The pipeline businesses are subject to competition. The interstate pipeline businesses of Panhandle and Florida Gas compete with those of other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service and the flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to the Company’s customers and end-users, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the demand for natural gas in the areas served by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Substantial risks are involved in operating a natural gas pipeline system. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a complex pipeline system. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency, the collision of equipment with pipeline facilities (such as may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near the facilities) and other catastrophic events beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the Company’s pipeline system, especially those portions that are located offshore, may be subject to adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, extreme temperatures and other natural phenomena, making it more difficult for the Company to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect the pipeline businesses. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to the pipeline systems of Panhandle and Florida Gas are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions able to serve the Company’s customers, the volume of natural gas transported by the Company may be negatively impacted. Natural gas prices can also affect customer demand for the various services provided by the Company. The pipeline businesses are dependent on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of their sales. Panhandle’s top two customers accounted for 35 percent of its 2009 revenue. Florida Gas’ top two customers accounted for 54 percent of its 2009 revenue. The loss of any one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is exposed to the credit risk of its transportation and storage customers in the ordinary course of business. Transportation service contracts obligate customers to pay charges for reservation of capacity, or reservation charges, regardless of whether they transport natural gas on the pipeline system. Customers with natural gas imbalances on the pipeline system may also owe natural gas to the Company. As a result, the Company’s profitability will depend upon the continued financial performance and creditworthiness of its customers rather than just upon the amount of capacity provided under service contracts. Generally, customers are rated investment grade or, as permitted by the Company’s tariff, are required to make pre-payments or deposits, or to provide collateral, if their creditworthiness does not meet certain criteria. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers' creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. 23 RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S GATHERING AND PROCESSING BUSINESS The Company’s gathering and processing business is unregulated. Unlike the Company’s returns on its regulated transportation and distribution businesses, the natural gas gathering and processing operations conducted at SUGS are not regulated for cost-based ratemaking purposes and may potentially have a higher level of risk in recovering incurred costs than the Company’s regulated operations. Although SUGS operates in an unregulated market, the business is subject to certain regulatory risks, most notably environmental and safety regulations. Moreover, the Company cannot predict when additional legislation or regulation might affect the gathering and processing industry, nor the impact of any such changes on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s gathering and processing business is subject to competition. The gathering and processing industry is expected to remain highly competitive. Most customers of SUGS have access to more than one gathering and/or processing system. The Company’s ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including the infrastructure and contracting strategies of competitors in the Company’s gathering region and the efficiency, quality and reliability of the Company’s plant and gathering system. In addition to SUGS’ current competitive position in the gathering and processing industry, its business is subject to pricing risks associated with changes in the supply of, and the demand for, natural gas and NGL. If natural gas or NGL prices in the producing areas connected to the Company’s gathering system are comparatively higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, the volume of natural gas that SUGS chooses to process may, to the extent operationally feasible, be reduced to maximize returns to the Company. Similarly, since the demand for natural gas or NGL is primarily a function of commodity prices (including prices for alternative energy sources), customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs, the volume processed, or the NGL extracted during processing, by SUGS may be reduced based on these market conditions on a daily basis after analysis by the Company. The Company’s profit margin in the gathering and processing business is highly dependent on energy commodity prices. SUGS’ gross margin is largely derived from (a) percentage of proceeds arrangements based on the volume and quality of natural gas gathered and/or NGL recovered through its facilities and (b) specified fee arrangements for a range of services. Under percent-of-proceeds arrangements, SUGS generally gathers and processes natural gas from producers for an agreed percentage of the proceeds from the sales of the resulting residue natural gas and NGL. The percent-of-proceeds arrangements, in particular, expose SUGS’ revenues and cash flows to risks associated with the fluctuation of the price of natural gas, NGL and crude oil and their relationships to each other. 24 The markets and prices for natural gas and NGL depend upon factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · the impact of seasonality and weather; · general economic conditions; · the level of domestic crude oil and natural gas production and consumption; · the level of worldwide crude oil and NGL production and consumption; · the availability and level of natural gas and NGL storage; · the availability of imported natural gas, LNG, NGL and crude oil; · actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; · the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; · the availability of NGL transportation and fractionation capacity; · the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; · the extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and · the availability and effective liquidity of natural gas and NGL derivative counterparties. To manage its commodity price risk related to natural gas and NGL, the Company uses a combination of puts, fixed-rate (i.e., receive fixed price) or floating-rate (i.e. receive variable price) index and basis swaps, NGL gross processing spread puts and fixed-rate swaps and exchange-traded futures and options. These derivative financial instruments allow the Company to preserve value and protect margins because changes in the value of the derivative financial instruments are highly effective in offsetting changes in physical market commodity prices and reducing basis risk. Basis risk exists primarily due to price differentials between cash market delivery locations and futures contract delivery locations. For information related to derivative financial instruments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 10 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities – Gathering and Processing Segment. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries could materially adversely affect the Company’s gathering and processing business. The NGL products the Company produces have a variety of applications, including for use as heating fuels, petrochemical feed stocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general economic conditions, new government regulations, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, mild winter weather, severe weather such as hurricanes causing damage to Gulf Coast petrochemical facilities or other reasons, could result in a decline in the value of the NGL products the Company sells and/or reduce the volume of NGL products the Company produces. Operational risks are involved in operating a gathering and processing business. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a natural gas gathering and processing business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of processing and fractionation facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. The Company does not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to its gathering and processing business, potentially resulting in future volumes of natural gas available to the Company being less than anticipated. The Company does not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to its gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information, as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, the Company does not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to its gathering systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated lives of the reserves connected to the Company’s gathering systems are less than anticipated and the Company is unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas in the future could be less than anticipated. A decline in the volumes of natural gas and associated NGL in the Company’s gathering and processing business could have a material adverse effect on its business. 25 The Company’s gathering and processing business accepts some credit risk in dealing with customers. SUGS derives its revenues from customers engaged primarily in the natural gas and utility industries, and extends payment credit to these customers. SUGS’ accounts receivable primarily consist of mid- to large-size domestic customers with credit ratings of investment grade or better. Moreover, SUGS maintains trading relationships with counterparties that include reputable U.S. broker-dealers and other financial institutions and evaluates the ability of each counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative agreements. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers’ creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. The Company depends on one natural gas producer for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas. The loss of this producer or the replacement of its contracts on less favorable terms could result in a decline in the Company’s volumes and/or gross margin. SUGS’ largest natural gas supplier for the year ended December 31, 2009 accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Company’s wellhead throughput under multiple contracts. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by this producer or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, if at all, as a result of competition or otherwise, could reduce the Company’s gross margin. Although this producer represents a large volume of natural gas, the gross margin per unit of volume is significantly lower than the average gross margin per unit of volume on the Company’s gathering and processing system due to the lack of need for services required to make the natural gas merchantable (e.g. high pressure, low NGL content, essentially transmission pipeline quality natural gas). RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS The distribution business is highly regulated and the Company’s revenues, operating results and financial condition may fluctuate with the distribution business’ ability to achieve timely and effective rate relief from state regulators. The Company’s distribution business is subject to regulation by the MPSC and the MDPU. These authorities regulate many aspects of the Company’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that can be charged to customers and the maximum rate of return that the Company is allowed to realize. The ability to obtain rate increases depends upon regulatory discretion. The distribution business is influenced by fluctuations in costs, including operating costs such as insurance, postretirement and other benefit costs, wages, changes in the provision for the allowance for doubtful accounts associated with volatile natural gas costs and other operating costs. The profitability of regulated operations depends on the business’ ability to recover costs related to providing services to its customers. To the extent that such operating costs increase in an amount greater than that for which rate recovery is allowed, this differential could impact operating results until the business files for and is allowed an increase in rates. The lag between an increase in costs and the rate relief obtained from the regulators can have a direct negative impact on operating results. As with any request for an increase in rates in a regulatory filing, once granted, the rate increase may not be adequate. In addition, regulators may prevent the business from passing along some costs in the form of higher rates. The distribution business’ operating results and liquidity needs are seasonal in nature and may fluctuate based on weather conditions and natural gas prices. The natural gas distribution business is a seasonal business with a significant percentage of annual operating revenues and EBIT occurring in the traditional winter heating season in the first and fourth calendar quarters. The business is also subject to seasonal and other variations in working capital due to changes in natural gas prices and the fact that customers pay for the natural gas delivered to them after they use it, whereas the business is required to pay for the natural gas before delivery. As a result, fluctuations in natural gas prices may have a significant effect on results of operations and cash flows. 26 Operational risks are involved in operating a distribution business. Numerous risks are associated with the operations of a natural gas distribution business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of suppliers’ processing facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s current plans and assumptions. From time to time, Southern Union also provides forward-looking statements in other materials it releases to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give the Company’s current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Southern Union has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated services, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Southern Union cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although management believes that the Company has been prudent and reasonable in its plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties should materialize, or if underlying assumptions should prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Readers should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. Southern Union undertakes no obligation to update publicly forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company makes on related subjects in its Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that Southern Union provides the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to its businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, management believes could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Southern Union notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, readers should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · changes in demand for natural gas or NGL and related services by the Company’s customers, in the composition of the Company’s customer base and in the sources of natural gas available to the Company; · the effects of inflation and the timing and extent of changes in the prices and overall demand for and availability of natural gas or NGL as well as electricity, oil, coal and other bulk materials and chemicals; · adverse weather conditions, such as warmer than normal weather in the Company’s service territories, and the operational impact of natural disasters; · changes in laws or regulations, third-party relations and approvals, decisions of courts, regulators and governmental bodies affecting or involving Southern Union, including deregulation initiatives and the impact of rate and tariff proceedings before FERC and various state regulatory commissions; · the speed and degree to which additional competition is introduced to Southern Union’s business and the resulting effect on revenues; 27 · the outcome of pending and future litigation; · the Company’s ability to comply with or to challenge successfully existing or new environmental regulations; · unanticipated environmental liabilities; · the Company’s exposure to highly competitive commodity businesses through its Gathering and Processing segment; · the Company’s ability to acquire new businesses and assets and integrate those operations into its existing operations, as well as its ability to expand its existing businesses and facilities; · the Company’s ability to control costs successfully and achieve operating efficiencies, including the purchase and implementation of new technologies for achieving such efficiencies; · the impact of factors affecting operations such as maintenance or repairs, environmental incidents, natural gas pipeline system constraints and relations with labor unions representing bargaining-unit employees; · exposure to customer concentration with a significant portion of revenues realized from a relatively small number of customers and any credit risks associated with the financial position of those customers; · changes in the ratings of the debt securities of Southern Union or any of its subsidiaries; · changes in interest rates and other general capital markets conditions, and in the Company’s ability to continue to access the capital markets; · acts of nature, sabotage, terrorism or other acts causing damage greater than the Company’s insurance coverage limits; · market risks beyond the Company’s control affecting its risk management activities including market liquidity, commodity price volatility and counterparty creditworthiness; and · other risks and unforeseen events. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N/A 