ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that it is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may become important factors that affect it. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS THAT RELATE TO SOUTHERN UNION Southern Union has substantial debt and depends on its ability to access the capital markets. Southern Union has a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, consolidated debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet totaled $3.5 billion outstanding, compared to total capitalization (long and short-term debt plus stockholders' equity) of $5.7 billion. Some of the Company’s debt obligations contain financial covenants concerning debt-to-capital ratios and interest coverage ratios. The Company’s failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations or render the Company unable to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration or inability to borrow could cause a material adverse change in the Company’s financial condition. The Company relies on access to both short-term and long-term credit as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from its operations. Any worsening of the Company’s financial condition or a material decrease in its common stock price could hamper its ability to access the capital markets. External events could also increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access the capital markets. Further, because of the need for certain state regulatory approvals in order to incur debt and issue capital stock, the Company may not be able to access the capital markets on a timely basis. Restrictions on the Company’s ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its business plan or limit its ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions on which it may otherwise rely for future growth. The Company plans to refinance its $425 million of debt maturing in August 2008 with new capital market debt or bank financings. Alternatively, should the Company not be successful in its refinancing efforts, the Company may choose to retire such debt upon maturity by utilizing some combination of cash flows from operations, draw downs under existing credit facilities, and altering the timing of controllable expenditures, among other things. The Company believes, based on its investment grade credit ratings and general financial condition, successful historical access to capital and debt markets, current economic and capital market conditions and market expectations regarding the Company's future earnings and cash flows, that it will be able to refinance and/or retire these obligations under acceptable terms prior to their maturity. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to achieve acceptable refinancing terms in any negotiation of new capital market debt or bank financings. Moreover, there can be no assurance the Company will be successful in its implementation of these refinancing and/or retirement plans and the Company's inability to do so would cause a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents Credit ratings downgrades could increase the Company’s financing costs and limit its ability to access the capital markets. As of December 31, 2007, both Southern Union’s and Panhandle’s debt is rated Baa3 by Moody's Investor Services, Inc., BBB- by Standard & Poor's and BBB by Fitch Ratings. If the Company’s credit ratings are downgraded below investment grade or if there are times when it is placed on "credit watch," both borrowing costs and the costs of maintaining certain contractual relationships could increase. Lower credit ratings could also adversely affect the Distribution segment’s relationships with state regulators, who may be unwilling to allow the Company to pass along increased debt service costs to natural gas customers. The Company’s growth strategy entails risk for investors. The Company intends to actively pursue acquisitions in the energy industry to complement and diversify its existing businesses. As part of its growth strategy, Southern Union may: · examine and potentially acquire regulated or unregulated businesses, including transportation and storage assets and gathering and processing businesses within the natural gas industry; · enter into joint venture agreements and/or other transactions with other industry participants or financial investors; · selectively divest parts of its business, including parts of its core operations; and · continue expanding its existing operations. The Company’s ability to acquire new businesses will depend upon the extent to which opportunities become available, as well as, among other things: · its success in bidding for the opportunities; · its ability to assess the risks of the opportunities; · its ability to obtain regulatory approvals on favorable terms; and · its access to financing on acceptable terms. Once acquired, the Company’s ability to integrate a new business into its existing operations successfully will depend on the adequacy of implementation plans, including the ability to identify and retain employees to manage the acquired business, and the ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies. The successful integration of any businesses acquired in the future may entail numerous risks, including, among others: · the risk of diverting management's attention from day-to-day operations; · the risk that the acquired businesses will require substantial capital and financial investments; · the risk that the investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations; and · the risk of substantial difficulties in the transition and integration process. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. Additionally, if the Company expands its existing operations, the success of any such expansion is subject to substantial risk and may expose the Company to significant costs. The Company cannot assure that its development or construction efforts will be successful. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects the Company’s financial results. To the extent it issues shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions or expansions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. 16 Table of Contents The Company depends on distributions from its subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet its needs. The Company is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends, loans, advances or other distributions from, its subsidiaries and joint ventures (including Citrus) to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. The availability of distributions from such entities is subject to their earnings and capital requirements, the satisfaction of various covenants and conditions contained in financing documents by which they are bound or in their organizational documents, and in the case of the regulated subsidiaries, regulatory restrictions that limit their ability to distribute profits to Southern Union. The Company owns 50 percent of Citrus, the holding company for Florida Gas. As such, the Company cannot control or guarantee the receipt of distributions from Florida Gas through Citrus. The Company is subject to operating risks. The Company’s operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with natural gas or NGLs, including explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires and other hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction of its facilities or damage to persons and property. If any of these events were to occur, the Company could suffer substantial losses. Moreover, as a result, the Company has been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company maintains insurance coverage, such coverage may be inadequate to protect the Company from all expenses related to these risks. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business that may increase its costs of operation, expose it to environmental liabilities and require it to make material unbudgeted expenditures. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the environmental aspects of its business (including air emissions), which are complex and have tended to become increasingly strict over time. These laws and regulations have necessitated, and in the future may necessitate, increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In addition, certain environmental laws may result in liability without regard to fault concerning contamination at a broad range of properties, including those currently or formerly owned, leased or operated properties and properties where the Company disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, waste. The Company is currently monitoring or remediating contamination at a number of its facilities and at third party waste disposal sites pursuant to environmental laws and regulations and indemnification agreements. The Company cannot predict with certainty the sites for which it may be responsible, the amount of resulting cleanup obligations that may be imposed on it or the amount and timing of future expenditures related to environmental remediation because of the difficulty of estimating cleanup costs and the uncertainty of payment by other potentially responsible parties. Costs and obligations also can arise from claims for toxic torts and natural resource damages or from releases of hazardous materials on other properties as a result of ongoing operations or disposal of waste. Compliance with amended, new or more stringently enforced existing environmental requirements, or the future discovery of contamination, may require material unbudgeted expenditures. These costs or expenditures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, particularly if such costs or expenditures are not fully recoverable from insurance or through the rates charged to customers or if they exceed any amounts that have been reserved. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, have resulted in increased costs, and the consequences of the War on Terror and the Iraq conflict may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The impact that terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001, may have on the energy industry in general, and on the Company in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding military activity may affect the Company’s operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, LNG facilities, gathering facilities and processing plants, 17 Table of Contents could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or a retaliatory strike. The Company may have to incur significant additional costs in the future to safeguard its physical assets. Federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge the Company’s tax return positions The positions taken by the Company in its tax return filings require significant judgment, use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. Despite management’s belief that the Company’s tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends, in part, on factors beyond the Company’s control. Third parties own most of the natural gas transported and stored through the pipeline systems operated by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Additionally, third parties produce all the natural gas or NGLs gathered and processed by SUGS. As a result, the volume of natural gas transported, stored, gathered or processed depends on the actions of those third parties and is beyond the Company’s control. Further, other factors beyond the Company’s control may unfavorably impact its ability to maintain or increase current transmission, storage, gathering or processing rates, to renegotiate existing contracts as they expire or to remarket unsubscribed capacity. The success of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses depends on the continued development of additional natural gas reserves in the vicinity of their facilities and their ability to access additional reserves to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to their systems. The amount of revenue generated by Panhandle and Florida Gas ultimately depends upon their access to reserves of available natural gas. Additionally, the amount of revenue generated by SUGS depends substantially upon the volume of natural gas or NGLs gathered and processed. As the reserves available through the supply basins connected to these systems naturally decline, a decrease in development or production activity could cause a decrease in the volume of natural gas available for transmission, gathering or processing. Investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves connected to the Company’s facilities depend on many factors beyond the Company’s control. The pipeline and gathering and processing business revenues are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. The revenues of Panhandle, Florida Gas and SUGS are generated under contracts that expire periodically. Although the Company will actively pursue the renegotiation, extension and/or replacement of all of its contracts, it cannot assure that it will be able to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or that the terms of any renegotiated contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If the Company is unable to renew, extend or replace these contracts, or if the Company renews them on less favorable terms, it may suffer a material reduction in revenues and earnings. The expansion of the Company’s pipeline and gathering and processing systems by constructing new facilities subjects the Company to construction and other risks that may adversely affect the financial results of the pipeline and gathering and processing businesses. During 2007, the domestic energy industry experienced an unprecedented level of expansion activity, including new natural gas and LNG pipelines and compression infrastructure projects. This level of activity is expected to continue for a period of three to four years. As a result, requirements for material, equipment and construction resources are straining supply and causing significant industry-wide cost increases. While the Company’s project cost estimates include provisions for cost escalation, future costs are uncertain. Further, the Company’s construction productivity was adversely affected in 2007 by contractor employee turnover and shortages of experienced contractor staff, as well as other factors beyond the Company’s control, such as weather conditions. These factors may continue to affect ultimate cost and timing of the Company’s expansion projects through the current construction boom-cycle. 18 Table of Contents RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE BUSINESS The Company’s transportation and storage business is highly regulated. The Company’s transportation and storage business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state and local regulatory agencies regulate the interstate pipeline business. In particular, FERC regulates services provided and rates charged by Panhandle and Florida Gas. In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard has oversight over certain issues related to the importation of LNG. The Company’s rates and operations are subject to regulation by federal regulators as well as the actions of Congress and state legislatures and, in some respects, state regulators. The Company cannot predict or control what effect future actions of regulatory agencies may have on its business or its access to the capital markets. Furthermore, the nature and degree of regulation of natural gas companies has changed significantly during the past 25 years and there is no assurance that further substantial changes will not occur or that existing policies and rules will not be applied in a new or different manner. Should new regulatory requirements regarding the security of its pipeline system or new accounting requirements for certain entities be imposed, the Company could be subject to additional costs that could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations if these costs are deemed unrecoverable in rates. The pipeline businesses are subject to competition. The interstate pipeline businesses of Panhandle and Florida Gas compete with those of other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service and the flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to the Company’s customers and end-users, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the demand for natural gas in the areas served by Panhandle and Florida Gas. Substantial risks are involved in operating a natural gas pipeline system. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a complex pipeline system. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency, the collision of equipment with pipeline facilities (such as may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near the facilities) and other catastrophic events beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the Company’s pipeline system, especially those portions that are located offshore, may be subject to adverse weather conditions including hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, extreme temperatures and other natural phenomena, making it more difficult for the Company to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect the pipeline businesses. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to the pipeline systems of Panhandle and Florida Gas are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, especially Canada, the volume of gas transported by the Company may be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents The pipeline businesses are dependent on a small number of customers for a significant percentage of their sales. Panhandle’s top three customers accounted for 48 percent of its 2007 revenue. Florida Gas’ top two customers accounted for 56 percent of its 2007 revenue. The loss of any one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is exposed to the credit risk of its transportation and storage customers in the ordinary course of business. Transportation service contracts obligate customers to pay charges for reservation of capacity, or reservation charges, regardless of whether they transport natural gas on the pipeline system. As a result, the Company’s profitability will depend upon the continued financial performance and creditworthiness of its customers rather than just upon the amount of capacity provided under service contracts. Generally, customers are rated investment grade or, as permitted by the Company’s tariff, are required to make pre-payments or deposits, or to provide collateral, if their creditworthiness does not meet certain criteria. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers' creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S NATURAL GAS GATHERING AND PROCESSING BUSINESS The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business is unregulated. Unlike the Company’s returns on its regulated transportation and distribution businesses, the natural gas and NGLs gathering and processing operations conducted at SUGS are not regulated and may potentially have a higher level of risk than the Company’s regulated operations. Although SUGS operates in an unregulated market, the business is subject to certain regulatory risks, most notably environmental and safety regulations. Moreover, the Company cannot predict when additional legislation or regulation might affect the gathering and processing industry, nor the impact of any such changes on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business is subject to competition. The natural gas gathering and processing industry is expected to remain highly competitive. Most customers of SUGS have access to more than one gathering and/or processing system. The Company’s ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including the infrastructure and contracting strategy of competitors in the Company’s gathering region; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the Company’s system; and the Company’s ability to maintain a reliable low-cost pipeline operating system. In addition to SUGS’ current competitive position in the natural gas gathering and processing industry, its business is subject to pricing risks associated with changes in the supply of, and the demand for, natural gas and NGL byproducts. If natural gas or NGL prices in the supply basins connected to the Company’s gathering system are comparatively higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, the volume of gas that SUGS chooses to process may be reduced to maximize returns to the Company. Similarly, since the demand for natural gas or NGLs is primarily a function of commodity prices (including prices for alternative energy sources), customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs, the volume processed by SUGS may be reduced based on these market conditions on a daily basis after analysis by the Company. The Company’s profit margin in the natural gas gathering and processing business is highly dependent on energy commodity prices. SUGS’ gross margin is largely derived from (a) percentage of proceeds arrangements based on the volume of gas gathered and/or NGLs processed through its facilities or (b) specified fee arrangements for a range of services provided. Under percent-of-proceeds arrangements, SUGS generally gathers and processes natural gas from producers for an agreed percentage of the proceeds from the sales of the resulting residue gas and 20 Table of Contents NGLs. The percent-of-proceeds arrangements, in particular, expose SUGS’ revenues and cash flows to risks associated with the fluctuation of the price of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and their relationship to each other. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: · the impact of seasonality and weather; · general economic conditions; · the level of domestic crude oil and natural gas production and consumption; · the availability of imported natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; · the availability of natural gas liquids transportation and fractionation capacity; · the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; and · the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. The Company employs various derivative financial instruments to manage commodity price risk. The Company uses a combination of fixed price physical forward contracts, exchange-traded futures and options and fixed for floating index and basis swaps to manage commodity price risk. These derivative financial instruments allow the Company to preserve value and protect margins because changes in the value of the derivative financial instruments are effective in offsetting changes in the physical market and reducing basis risk. However, these financial derivative instrument contracts do not entirely eliminate pricing risks and, to the extent certain elements of these financial derivative instruments are speculative in nature, may expose the Company to losses or unprotected margins and value diminution. Moreover, the Company is subject to other risks including un-hedged commodity price changes, market supply shortages and customer defaults. For information related to derivative financial instruments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 11 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities – Gathering and Processing Segment. Operational risks are involved in operating a natural gas gathering and processing business. Numerous operational risks are associated with the operation of a natural gas gathering and processing business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of processing facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. The Company’s natural gas gathering and processing business accepts some credit risk in dealing with customers. SUGS derives its revenues from customers engaged primarily in the natural gas and utilities industries and extends payment credit to these customers. SUGS’ accounts receivable primarily consist of mid- to large-size domestic customers with credit ratings of investment grade or better. Moreover, SUGS maintains trading relationships with counterparties that include reputable U.S. broker-dealers and other financial institutions and evaluates the ability of each counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative agreements. Nevertheless, the Company cannot predict to what extent future declines in customers’ creditworthiness may negatively impact its business. The inability to continue to access independently owned and publicly owned lands could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate and/or expand its natural gas gathering and processing business. SUGS’ ability to operate within its operating region will depend on its success in maintaining existing rights-of-way and obtaining new rights-of-way. Securing additional rights-of-way is also critical to SUGS’ ability to pursue expansion projects. SUGS cannot assure that it will be able to acquire new rights-of-way or maintain access to existing rights-of-way upon the expiration of the current grants. The Company’s financial position could be adversely affected if the costs of new or extended rights-of-way grants exceed the margin within a gathering region. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE COMPANY’S DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS The distribution business is highly regulated and the Company’s revenues, operating results and financial condition may fluctuate with the distribution business’ ability to achieve timely and effective rate relief from state regulators. The Company’s distribution business is subject to regulation by the MPSC and the MDPU. These authorities regulate many aspects of the Company’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that can be charged to customers and the maximum rates of return that the Company is allowed to realize. The ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. 21 Table of Contents The distribution business is influenced by fluctuations in costs, including operating costs such as insurance, postretirement and other benefit costs, wages, changes in the provision for the allowance for doubtful accounts associated with volatile natural gas costs and other operating costs. The profitability of regulated operations depends on the business’ ability to pass through to its customers costs related to providing them service. To the extent that such operating costs increase in an amount greater than that for which rate recovery is allowed, this differential could impact operating results until the business files for and is allowed an increase in rates. The lag between an increase in costs and the rate relief obtained from the regulators can have a direct negative impact on operating results. As with any request for an increase in rates in a regulatory filing, once granted, the rate increase may not be adequate. In addition, regulators may prevent the business from passing along some costs in the form of higher rates. The distribution business’ operating results and liquidity needs are seasonal in nature and may fluctuate based on weather conditions and natural gas prices. The gas distribution business is a seasonal business and is subject to weather conditions. The utilities’ operations have historically been sensitive to weather and are seasonal in nature, with a significant percentage of annual operating revenues and EBIT occurring in the traditional winter heating season in the first and fourth calendar quarters. However, the MPSC approved distribution rates effective April 3, 2007 for Missouri Gas Energy’s residential customers (which comprise approximately 87 percent of its total customers and approximately 67 percent of its operating revenues) that eliminate the impact of weather and conservation for residential margin revenues and related earnings in Missouri. The business is also subject to seasonal and other variations in working capital due to changes in natural gas prices and the fact that customers pay for the natural gas delivered to them after they use it, whereas the business is required to pay for the natural gas before delivery. As a result, fluctuations in weather between years may have a significant effect on results of operations and cash flows. In years with warm winters, revenues may be adversely affected. Operational risks are involved in operating a natural gas distribution business. Numerous risks are associated with the operations of a natural gas distribution business. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of suppliers’ processing facilities below expected levels of capacity or efficiency, the collision of equipment with facilities and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides, tornadoes, lightning or other similar events beyond the Company’s control. It is also possible that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, Southern Union also provides forward-looking statements in other materials it releases to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give the Company’s current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Southern Union has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated services, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Southern Union cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although management believes that the Company has been prudent in its plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties should materialize, or if underlying assumptions should prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Readers should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 22 Table of Contents Southern Union undertakes no obligation to update publicly forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company makes on related subjects in its Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that Southern Union provides the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to its businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, management believes could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Southern Union notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, readers should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · changes in demand for natural gas by the Company’s customers, the composition of the Company’s customer base and in the sources of natural gas available to the Company; · the effects of inflation and the timing and extent of changes in the prices and overall demand for and availability of natural gas or natural gas liquid products as well as electricity, oil, coal and other bulk materials and chemicals; · adverse weather conditions, such as warmer than normal weather in the Company’s service territories, and the operational impact of natural disasters; · changes in laws or regulations, third-party relations and approvals, decisions of courts, regulators and governmental bodies affecting or involving Southern Union, including deregulation initiatives and the impact of rate and tariff proceedings before FERC and various state regulatory commissions; · the speed and degree to which additional competition is introduced to Southern Union’s business and the resulting effect on revenues; · the outcome of pending and future litigation; · the Company’s ability to comply with or to challenge successfully existing or new environmental regulations; · unanticipated environmental liabilities; · The Company’s increased exposure to highly competitive commodity businesses through its Gathering and Processing segment; · the Company’s ability to acquire new businesses and assets and integrate those operations into its existing operations, as well as its ability to expand its existing businesses and facilities; · the Company’s ability to control costs successfully and achieve operating efficiencies, including the purchase and implementation of new technologies for achieving such efficiencies; · the impact of factors affecting operations such as maintenance or repairs, environmental incidents, gas pipeline system constraints and relations with labor unions representing bargaining-unit employees; · exposure to customer concentration with a significant portion of revenues realized from a relatively small number of customers and any credit risks associated with the financial position of those customers; · changes in the ratings of the debt securities of Southern Union or any of its subsidiaries; · changes in interest rates and other general capital markets conditions, and in the Company’s ability to continue to access the capital markets; · acts of nature, sabotage, terrorism or other acts causing damage greater than the Company’s insurance coverage limits; · market risks beyond the Company’s control affecting its risk management activities including market liquidity, commodity price volatility and counterparty creditworthiness; and · other risks and unforeseen events. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N/A 23 Table of Contents 