Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III. Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules PART I CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELATING TO THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend those forward looking-statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements. All statements regarding our expected financial position and operating results, our business strategy, our financing plans and the outcome of any contingencies are forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, and projections about our industry and our business. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," or variations of those words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, unforeseen environmental liabilities, international military conflicts, the mix of products sold and their profit margins, order cancellation or a reduction in orders from customers, the nature and pricing of competing products, the availability and pricing of key raw materials, dependence on key members of management, risks of entering into new European markets, and economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad. NOTE REGARDING DOLLAR AMOUNTS In this Annual Report, all dollar amounts are expressed in thousands, except share prices and per-share amounts. ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Aceto Corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, are referred to herein collectively as "Aceto" "Company", "we", "us", and "our" unless the content indicates otherwise. Aceto was incorporated in 1947 in the State of New York. We are a global distributor of chemically-derived pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals and agrochemicals. Our business is organized along product lines into three segments: Health Sciences, Chemicals & Colorants and Agrochemicals. Our Health Sciences division includes active ingredients for generic pharmaceuticals, vitamins, and nutritional supplements, as well as products used in preparing pharmaceuticals, primarily by major innovative drug companies, and biopharmaceuticals. The products in our Chemicals & Colorants division include a variety of specialty chemicals used in plastics, resins, adhesives, coatings, food, flavor additives, fragrances, cosmetics, metal finishing, electronics, air-conditioning systems and many other areas. Dye and pigment intermediates are used in the color-producing industries such as textiles, inks, paper, and coatings. Organic intermediates are used in the production of agrochemicals. Our Agrochemicals division includes herbicides, fungicides and insecticides, as well as a sprout inhibitor for potatoes. Our presence in China, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Singapore, India, Poland, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and the United States, along with warehouses worldwide, enable us to respond quickly to demands from customers worldwide, assuring that a consistent, high-quality supply of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, specialty chemicals and agrochemicals is readily accessible. We are able to offer our customers competitive pricing, continuity of supply, and quality control. Our 59 years of experience, our reputation for reliability and stability, and our long-term relationships with our suppliers have fostered loyalty among our customers. We remain confident about our short- and long-term business prospects. In the short-term, we anticipate continued organic growth, entering the developing biopharmaceutical market, globalization of our Chemicals & Colorants business, expansion of our agrochemical segment by acquisition of product lines, continued enhancement of our sourcing operations in China and India, and steady improvement of our regulatory capabilities. We believe that our track record of continuous product introductions demonstrates that Aceto has come to be recognized by the worldwide generic pharmaceutical industry as an important, reliable supplier. Our long-term plans involve seeking 4 strategic acquisitions that enhance our earnings, forming alliances with partners that add to our capabilities, and establishing significant business operations in Eastern Europe. Information concerning revenue and gross profit attributable to each of our reportable segments is found in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation", and in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, approximately 67% and 68%, respectively, of our purchases were from Asia and approximately 21% and 22%, respectively, were from Europe. Our customers are located throughout the United States, Europe and Asia. They include a wide range of companies in the industrial chemical, agricultural, and health science industries, and range from small trading companies to Fortune 500 companies. During fiscal years 2006 and 2005, sales made to customers in the United States totaled $157,329 and $160,123, respectively. Sales made to customers outside the United States during fiscal years 2006 and 2005 totaled $139,801 and $153,258, respectively, of which, approximately 53% and 65%, respectively, were to customers located in Europe. The chemical industry is highly competitive. We compete by offering high-quality products produced around the world by both large and small manufacturers at attractive prices. Because of our long relationship with many suppliers as well as our sourcing offices in China and India, we are able to ensure that any given product is manufactured at a facility that is appropriate for that product. For the most part, we store our inventory of chemicals in public warehouses strategically located throughout the United States, Europe, and Asia, and we can therefore fill orders rapidly from inventory. We have developed ready access to key purchasing, research, and technical executives of our customers and suppliers. This allows us to ensure that when necessary, sourcing decisions can be made quickly. No single product or customer accounted for as much as 10% of net sales in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004. No single supplier accounted for as much as 10% of purchases in fiscal 2006. Two suppliers accounted for approximately 13% and 12% of purchases in fiscal year 2005, one supplier accounted for approximately 10% of purchases in fiscal year 2004. We hold no patents, licenses, franchises or concessions that we consider material to our operations. Our subsidiary Aceto Agricultural Chemicals Corp. ("Aceto Agricultural") markets, and contracts for the manufacture of, certain agricultural chemicals that are subject to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act ("FIFRA"). Under FIFRA, companies that wish to market pesticides must provide test data to the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") to register, obtain and maintain approved labels for those pesticides. The EPA requires that follow-on registrants of these products, on a basis prescribed in the FIFRA regulations, compensate the initial registrant for the cost of producing the necessary test data. Follow-on registrants do not themselves generate or contract for the data. However, when FIFRA requirements mandate that new test data be generated to enable all registrants to continue marketing a pesticide product, often both the initial and follow-on registrants establish a task force to jointly undertake, and pay for, the testing effort. We are currently a member of two such task force groups and historically, our payments have been in the range of $250 - $500 per year. We may be required to make such additional payments in the future. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures and competitive position. Our subsidiary, Arsynco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation ("Arsynco") has environmental remediation obligations in connection with its former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt, New Jersey, which was closed in 1993 and is currently held for sale. During fiscal 2006, based on continued monitoring of the contamination at the site and the current proposed plan of remediation, Arsynco received an estimate from an environmental consultant stating that the costs of remediation could be between $5,400 and $6,900. As of June 30, 2006 a liability of $5,400 is included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 90-8, "Capitalization of Costs to Treat Environmental Contamination" management believes that the majority of costs incurred to remediate the site will be capitalized in preparing the property which is currently classified as held for sale. An appraisal of the fair value of the property by a third-party appraiser supports this assumption. As of June 30, 2005, a liability of $1,195 was included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. It is possible that the assumptions underlying our estimates will be found to be incorrect, in which case the liability could be significantly greater than currently estimated and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In March 2006, also related to the former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt, New Jersey, Arsynco received notice from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of its status as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) for a site described as the Berry's 5 Creek Study Area. Arsynco is one of over 150 PRP's which have potential liability for the required investigation and remediation of the site. The estimate of the potential liability is not quantifiable for a number of reasons, including the difficulty in determining the extent of contamination and the length of time remediation may require. In addition, any estimate of liability must also consider the number of other PRP's and their financial strength. Since an amount of the liability can not be reasonably estimated at this time, no accrual is recorded for these potential future costs. The impact of the resolution of this matter on the Company's results of operations in a particular reporting period is not known. Management currently believes, however, that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity. HISTORICAL BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS We completed two significant transactions in fiscal year 2004. These transactions are consistent with our strategy of seeking strategic acquisitions that enhance earnings and forming alliances with partners that add to our capabilities. On December 31, 2003, through our wholly owned subsidiary Aceto Holding GmbH ("Aceto Holding"), we acquired all of the capital stock of Pharma Waldhof Beteiligungs GmbH ("Pharma Waldhof") and all of the partnership interest of Pharma Waldhof GmbH & Co. KG. Pharma Waldhof is the general partner of Pharma Waldhof GmbH & Co. KG. Based in Dusseldorf, Germany, Pharma Waldhof GmbH distributes biologically and chemically derived Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, or "APIs," used in therapeutic and diagnostic products. It is a worldwide provider of a biologically derived API used in a widely used diagnostic and therapeutic heart medication. Its primary customers include worldwide ethical and generic pharmaceutical companies. We continued the business of Pharma Waldhof and successfully integrated that business into our business during the second half of fiscal year 2004. On November 25, 2003, our wholly owned subsidiary Aceto Agricultural formed a joint venture with Nufarm Americas Inc. ("Nufarm"), a subsidiary of Australia-based Nufarm Limited. Each company owns 50% of the joint venture, which is named S.R.F.A., LLC. Aceto Agricultural and Nufarm have been issued an EPA label for Butoxone(R), an herbicide used on peanuts, soybeans and alfalfa. Aceto Agricultural previously marketed this herbicide under a different label (2,4DB). Aceto Agricultural and Nufarm now market the herbicide in the United States solely under the Butoxone(R) label, which has greater market penetration than 2,4DB. Nufarm continues to formulate the product for the joint venture. S.R.F.A. commenced operations in April 2004. In accordance with FASB Interpretation 46R, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN 46R), the financial statements of S.R.F.A. are included in the consolidated financial statements of Aceto. This joint venture reflects our strategy for expanding our agrochemical business, which is to partner with large agrochemical manufacturers and distributors to capitalize on the rapid consolidation of the industry. Due to this consolidation, there remain a limited number of significant manufacturers of crop-protection products. We believe this consolidation trend will continue, forcing the large distributors to find alternative sources. We will look to Asian producers to meet our needs in this area. EMPLOYEES At June 30, 2006, we had 216 employees, none of whom were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additionally, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY WITH OUR COMPETITORS, MANY OF WHICH HAVE GREATER MARKET PRESENCE AND RESOURCES THAN US, OUR PROFITABILITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our financial condition and operating results are directly related to our ability to compete in the intensely competitive worldwide chemical market. We face intense competition from global and regional distributors of chemical products, many of which are large chemical manufacturers as well as distributors. Many of these companies have substantially greater 6 resources than us, including greater financial, marketing and distribution resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. In addition, increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share for our services, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT UNINSURED ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER LIABILITIES INHERENT IN THE CHEMICAL DISTRIBUTION INDUSTRY THAT WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The business of distributing chemicals is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state, local, and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations impose liability for loss of life, damage to property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage that may occur in our business. Many of these regulations provide for substantial fines and remediation costs in the event of chemical spills, explosions and pollution. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all current laws and regulations, we can give no assurance that we will not incur material liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or that such insurance will remain available on terms and at rates acceptable to us. Additionally, if existing environmental and other regulations are changed, or additional laws or regulations are passed, the cost of complying with those laws may be substantial, thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. Our subsidiary, Arsynco, has environmental remediation obligations in connection with its former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt, New Jersey. Estimates of how much it would cost to remediate environmental contamination at this site have increased since the facility was closed in 1993. If the actual costs are significantly greater than estimated, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In March 2006, also related to its former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt, New Jersey, Arsynco received notice from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of its status as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) for a site described as the Berry's Creek Study Area. Arsynco is one of over 150 PRP's which have potential liability for the required investigation and remediation of the site. The estimate of the potential liability is not quantifiable for a number of reasons, including the difficulty in determining the extent of contamination and the length of time remediation may require. In addition, any estimate of liability must also consider the number of other potentially responsible parties and their financial strength. Since an amount of the liability can not be reasonably estimated at this time, no accrual is recorded for these potential future costs. The impact of the resolution of this matter on the Company's results of operations in a particular reporting period is not known. However, management believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity. ASSESSMENTS BY VARIOUS TAX AUTHORITIES MAY BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT THAN THE AMOUNTS WE HAVE PROVIDED FOR IN OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. We are regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits may result in proposed assessments. While we believe that we have adequately provided for any such assessments, future settlements may be materially different than we have provided for and thereby adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and although we believe that we have provided for income and other taxes in accordance with the relevant regulations, if the applicable regulations were ultimately interpreted differently by a taxing authority, we may be exposed to additional tax liabilities. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF INHERENT RISKS, INCLUDING THE RISK THAT OUR ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL. We continually seek to expand our business through acquisitions of other companies that complement our own and through joint ventures, licensing agreements and other arrangements. Any decision regarding strategic alternatives would be subject to inherent risks, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify the appropriate opportunities, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms, successfully integrate any acquired business, retain key employees, or achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the strategic alternative selected. Acquisitions can require significant capital resources and divert our management's attention from our existing business. Additionally, we may issue additional shares in connection with a strategic transaction, thereby diluting the holdings of our existing common shareholders, incur debt or assume liabilities, become subject to litigation, or consume cash, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 7 ANY ACQUISITION THAT WE MAKE COULD RESULT IN A SUBSTANTIAL CHARGE TO OUR EARNINGS. We have previously incurred charges to our earnings in connection with acquisitions, and may continue to experience charges to our earnings for any acquisitions that we make, including large and immediate write-offs of acquired assets, or impairment charges. These costs may also include substantial severance and other closure costs associated with eliminating duplicate or discontinued products, employees, operations and facilities. These charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for particular quarterly periods and they could possibly have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. OUR REVENUE STREAM IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT. Our revenue stream is difficult to predict because it is primarily generated as customers place orders and customers can change their requirements or cancel orders. Many of our sales orders are short-term and may be cancelled at any time. As a result, much of our revenue is not recurring from period to period, which contributes to the variability of our results from period to period. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE QUARTERS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our operating results will fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of contracts, the delay or cancellation of a contract, and changes in government regulations. Any one of these factors could have a significant impact on our quarterly results. In some quarters, our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. FAILURE TO OBTAIN PRODUCTS FROM OUTSIDE MANUFACTURERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL SALES ORDERS TO OUR CUSTOMERS. We rely on outside manufacturers to supply products for resale to our customers. Manufacturing problems may occur with these and other outside sources. If such problems occur, we cannot ensure that we will be able to deliver our products to our customers profitably or on time. OUR POTENTIAL LIABILITY ARISING FROM OUR COMMITMENT TO INDEMNIFY OUR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We have committed in our bylaws to indemnify our directors, officers and employees against the reasonable expenses incurred by these persons in connection with an action brought against him or her in such capacity, except in matters as to which he or she is adjudged to have breached a duty to us. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under this provision is unlimited. While we have a "director and officer" insurance policy that covers a portion of this potential exposure, we may be adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above our insurance limits. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. Our business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. Instability due to military, terrorist, political and economic actions in other countries could materially disrupt our overseas operations and export sales. In fiscal years 2006 and 2005, approximately 47% and 49%, respectively, of our revenues were attributable to operations conducted abroad and to export sales. In addition, in fiscal year 2006, approximately 67% and 21% of our purchases came from Europe and Asia, respectively. In addition, in certain countries where we currently operate or export, intend to operate or export, or intend to expand our operations, we could be subject to other political, military and economic uncertainties, including labor unrest, restrictions on transfers of funds and unexpected changes in regulatory environments. FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. A substantial portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate in their local currencies. Our results of operations and financial condition may therefore be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. 8 WE RELY HEAVILY ON KEY EXECUTIVES FOR OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Our financial performance is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our key executives. The loss of the services of any of our key executives could therefore have a material adverse effect upon our financial position and operating results. None of our key executives has an employment agreement with us and we do not maintain "key-man" insurance on any of our key executives. VIOLATIONS OF CGMP AND OTHER GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the United States must be operated in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices ("cGMP") regulations as required by the FDA. Our facilities are subject to scheduled periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that we had materially violated these requirements could result in one or more regulatory sanctions, loss of a customer contract, disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of our facilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. LITIGATION MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS AND OUR MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and could distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of our products or services could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on favorable terms. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK COULD BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and may continue to be volatile in the future, due to a variety of factors, including: o quarterly fluctuations in our operating income and earnings per share results o technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors o economic conditions o disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights o changes in earnings estimates and market growth rate projections by market research analysts o sales of common stock by existing security holders o loss of key personnel o securities class actions or other litigation The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. Any failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. INCIDENTS RELATED TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Portions of our operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although we are diligent in designing and implementing safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could adversely affect our business. THERE ARE INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES INVOLVED IN ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN PREPARING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH U.S. GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES. ANY CHANGES IN THE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS WE USE COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Preparing financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves 9 making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the reported amounts. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND STOCK PRICE. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock and may also result in delayed filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC's public reference room at Room 1024, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information that issuers (including Aceto) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website is WWW.SEC.GOV. Our website is WWW.ACETO.COM. We make available free of charge through our Internet site, via a link to the SEC's website at WWW.SEC.GOV, our annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of our directors and executive officers; and any amendments to those reports and forms. We make these filings available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 