ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in WesBanco’s common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in price, and you may lose all or part of your investment. DUE TO INCREASED COMPETITION, WESBANCO MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN BANKING CUSTOMERS AT CURRENT LEVELS. WesBanco faces competition from the following: • local, regional and national banks; • savings and loans; • internet banks; 13 Table of Contents • credit unions; • finance companies; and • brokerage firms serving WesBanco’s market areas. In particular, WesBanco Bank’s competitors include several major national financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions may have products and services not offered by WesBanco, which may cause current and potential customers to choose those institutions. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits and range and quality of services provided. If WesBanco is unable to attract new and retain current customers, loan and deposit growth could decrease causing WesBanco’s results of operations and financial condition to be negatively impacted. WESBANCO MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXPAND ITS TRUST AND INVESTMENT SERVICES SEGMENT AND RETAIN ITS CURRENT CUSTOMERS. As of December 31, 2008, WesBanco had approximately $2.4 billion in assets under management, which provided approximately 8.1% of WesBanco’s net revenues. WesBanco may not be able to attract new and retain current investment management clients due to competition from the following: • commercial banks and trust companies; • mutual fund companies; • investment advisory firms; • law firms; • brokerage firms; and • other financial services companies. Its ability to successfully attract and retain investment management clients is dependent upon its ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. Due to the changes in economic conditions, the performance of the trust and investment services segment may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in which investment clients’ assets are invested, causing clients to seek other alternative investment options. If WesBanco is not successful, its results from operations and financial position may be negatively impacted. CUSTOMERS MAY DEFAULT ON THE REPAYMENT OF LOANS. The Bank’s customers may default on the repayment of loans, which may negatively impact WesBanco’s earnings due to loss of principal and interest income. Increased operating expenses may result from the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. Collection efforts may or may not be successful causing WesBanco to write off the loan or repossess the collateral securing the loan, which may or may not exceed the balance of the loan. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses at least quarterly, which includes testing certain individual loans as well as collective pools of loans for impairment. This evaluation includes an assessment of actual loss experience within each category of the portfolio, individual commercial and commercial real estate loans that exhibit credit weakness; current economic events, including employment statistics, trends in bankruptcy filings, and other pertinent factors; industry or geographic concentrations; and regulatory guidance. Additions to the allowance for loan losses results in an expense for the period. 14 Table of Contents WesBanco’s regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses. Based on their assessment the regulatory agencies may require WesBanco to adjust the allowance for loan losses. These adjustments could negatively impact WesBanco’s results of operations or financial position. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN WESBANCO’S MARKET AREAS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT EARNINGS. A downturn in the local and regional economies could negatively impact WesBanco’s banking business. WesBanco Bank serves both individuals and business customers throughout West Virginia, Ohio and Western Pennsylvania. The ability of the Bank’s customers to repay their loans is strongly tied to the economic conditions in these areas. These economic conditions may also force customers to utilize deposits held by WesBanco Bank in order to pay current expenses causing the Bank’s deposit base to shrink. As a result the Bank may have to borrow funds at higher rates in order to meet liquidity needs. These events may have a negative impact on WesBanco’s earnings. CURRENT MARKET INTEREST RATES AND COST OF FUNDS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT WESBANCO’S BANKING BUSINESS. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact the business of WesBanco Bank. The Bank’s main source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on interest-bearing assets (usually loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond WesBanco’s control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. WesBanco Bank’s net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce the Bank’s net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, the Bank has adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, WesBanco cannot be certain that changes in interest rates or the shape of the interest rate yield curve will not negatively impact its results of operations or financial position. WesBanco’s cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. The Bank has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and wholesale borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at the Bank decreases relative to its overall banking operations, the Bank may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. SIGNIFICANT DECLINES IN U.S. AND FOREIGN MARKETS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON WESBANCO’S EARNINGS. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme disruption recently. These conditions resulted in less liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain asset types. In many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Sustained weakness in business and economic conditions in any or all of the domestic or foreign financial markets could result in credit deterioration in investment securities held by us, rating agency downgrades for such securities or other market factors that could result in us having to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in the value of such investment securities, with a corresponding charge against earnings. Furthermore, our pension assets are primarily invested in equity and debt securities, and continued weakness in capital and credit markets could 15 Table of Contents result in further deterioration of these assets which may increase minimum funding contributions and future pension expense. If the current levels of market disruption continue or further deteriorate, these conditions may be material to WesBanco’s ability to access capital and may adversely impact results of operations. Further, WesBanco’s trust and investment services income could be impacted by fluctuations in the securities market. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decline, the Bank’s revenue could be negatively impacted. WESBANCO MAY BE REQUIRED TO WRITE DOWN GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, CAUSING ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS TO BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED. When WesBanco acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2008, WesBanco’s goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $267.9 million. Under current accounting standards, if WesBanco determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it is required to write down the carrying value of these assets. WesBanco conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. WesBanco completed such an impairment analysis in 2008 and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008. WesBanco cannot provide assurance that it will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its stockholders’ equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price. ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE TO WESBANCO IN THE FUTURE. WesBanco continually evaluates opportunities to acquire other businesses. However, WesBanco may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of its business. WesBanco expects that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with it to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that WesBanco would likely pursue, and its competitors may have greater resources than it does. Also, acquisitions of regulated business such as banks are subject to various regulatory approvals. If WesBanco fails to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, it will not be able to consummate an acquisition that it believes is in its best interests. CHANGES IN REGULATORY CAPITAL REGULATIONS BY THE FEDERAL RESERVE MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT WESBANCO’S CAPITAL LEVELS. WesBanco currently has $111.1 million in junior subordinated debt presented as a separate category of long-term debt on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. For regulatory purposes, trust preferred securities totaling $107.8 million underlying such junior subordinated debt are included in Tier 1 capital in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements. On March 1, 2005, the Federal Reserve adopted a rule that will retain trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, but with stricter quantitative limits and clearer qualitative standards. Under the rule, after a transition period that ends on March 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of trust preferred securities and certain other capital elements will be limited to 25 percent of Tier 1 capital elements, net of goodwill. The amount of trust preferred securities and certain other elements in excess of the limit can be included in Tier 2 capital, subject to restrictions. The rule is not expected to have an impact on WesBanco’s Tier 1 capital; however should WesBanco issue additional trust preferred securities, or incur material operating losses, WesBanco’s Tier 1 capital ratio may be limited by the rule adopted by the Board. WesBanco’s earnings may also be negatively impacted due to prepayment penalties associated with the redemption of certain of the trust preferred securities. 16 Table of Contents FDIC INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS ARE EXPECTED TO INCREASE CONSIDERABLY RESULTING IN A NEGATIVE IMPACT TO EARNINGS. The FDIC may increase the premiums charged for FDIC deposit insurance protection to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund to an acceptable level. The FDIC has proposed that 2009 premiums more than double and should more bank failures occur, the FDIC premiums could continue to increase. An increase in insurance premiums will have an adverse effect on WesBanco’s earnings. LIMITED AVAILABILITY OF BORROWINGS FROM THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT EARNINGS. Wesbanco Bank is currently a member bank of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Pittsburgh, and retains certain short-term borrowings from the FHLB of Cincinnati from prior bank acquisitions. Membership in this system of quasi-governmental, regional home-loan oriented agency banks allows us to participate in various programs offered by the FHLB. We borrow funds from the FHLB, which are secured by a blanket lien on certain residential mortgage loans or securities with collateral values in excess of the outstanding balances. Current and future earnings shortfalls and minimum capital requirements of the FHLB may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to their member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by member banks. Should this occur, WesBanco’s short-term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should WesBanco be restricted from using FHLB advances due to weakness in the system or with the FHLB of Pittsburgh, WesBanco may be forced to find alternative funding sources. Such alternative funding sources may include Federal Reserve discount window and short-term borrowings, the issuance of additional junior subordinated debt within allowed capital guidelines, utilization of existing or new lines of credit with third party banks, borrowings under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing brokered deposits, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. In addition, the Bank may decide to participate in the U.S. Treasury’s Temporary Guarantee Liquidity Program (“TGLP”), whereby the Bank may issue up to 2% of its outstanding liabilities in guaranteed unsecured bank debt prior to June 30, 2009, maturing prior to June 30, 2012. On December 23, 2008 the FHLB of Pittsburgh announced that it will suspend dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock to its member banks. The FHLB of Pittsburgh stock owned by WesBanco totaled $26.3 million and $14.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Dividend income recognized on FHLB of Pittsburgh stock totaled $0.4 million and $0.9 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, the Bank owned $5.7 million and $10.5 million of FHLB of Cincinnati stock at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which paid a cash dividend at an annualized rate of 5.00% for the fourth quarter of 2008 and a stock dividend at an annualized rate of 6.00% for the fourth quarter of 2007. Dividend payments have been eliminated by the FHLB of Pittsburgh and may be eliminated by the FHLB of Cincinnati at anytime in the future in order for these FHLB’s to restore their retained earnings and/or overall risk-based capital ratios. In such case, the corresponding FHLB stock owned by WesBanco may be deemed a non-earning asset and could potentially be evaluated for impairment through earnings. WESBANCO’S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DEPEND ON THE SUCCESSFUL GROWTH OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES. WesBanco’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of its banking and other subsidiaries. Therefore, WesBanco’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of these subsidiaries. In the future, part of WesBanco’s growth may come from buying other banks and buying or establishing other companies. Such entities may not be profitable after they are purchased or established, and they may lose money or be dilutive to earnings per share, particularly for the first few years. A new bank or company may bring with it unexpected liabilities, bad loans, or poor employee relations, or the new bank or company may lose customers and the associated revenue. 17 Table of Contents WESBANCO’S ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS IS LIMITED. Subject to restrictions described in the next risk factor, holders of shares of WesBanco’s common stock are entitled to dividends if, when, and as declared by WesBanco’s Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. Although the Board of Directors has declared cash dividends in the past, the current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the banking subsidiaries. Federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the banking subsidiaries to pay dividends. Additional restrictions are placed upon WesBanco by the policies of federal regulators, as more fully described in “Item 1. Business—Payment of Dividends.” In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including WesBanco’s and the Bank’s future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory constraints and financial condition. WESBANCO’S PARTICIPATION IN THE TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM SUBJECTS WESBANCO TO SEVERAL RESTRICTIONS, INCLUDING RESTRICTIONS ON WESBANCO’S ABILITY TO DECLARE OR PAY DIVIDENDS AND REPURCHASE SHARES OF WESBANCO STOCK. The Securities Purchase Agreement between WesBanco and the Treasury pursuant to which WesBanco sold $75.0 million of WesBanco’s Series A Preferred Stock and issued a warrant to purchase up to 439,282 shares of WesBanco’s common stock provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by WesBanco or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, WesBanco may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on WesBanco’s common stock above $0.28 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of WesBanco’s common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, WesBanco may not pay any dividends on its common stock unless WesBanco is current in its dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. Furthermore, the Treasury may amend any provision of the Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes. Any amendments or restrictions on payment of dividends could have a negative effect on the value of WesBanco’s common stock. WESBANCO’S PARTICIPATION IN THE TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM SUBJECTS WESBANCO TO RESTRICTIONS ON COMPENSATION PAID TO WESBANCO’S EXECUTIVES. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, WesBanco adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement. These standards generally apply to WesBanco’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. The change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation could increase the overall cost of WesBanco’s executive compensation programs in future periods. Pursuant to the ARRA, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, have been imposed on WesBanco’s most highly compensated employees, which may make it more difficult for WesBanco to retain and recruit qualified personnel. WESBANCO MAY ENCOUNTER INTEGRATION DIFFICULTIES OR MAY FAIL TO REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF ACQUISITIONS. WesBanco may not be able to integrate Oak Hill’s operations without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of their respective ongoing 18 Table of Contents businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Future results of the combined company may be materially different from those estimated by WesBanco and there can be no assurance that any enhanced earnings will result from the merger. Expenses associated with the acquisition may be higher or lower than originally estimated, depending upon how costly or difficult it is to integrate the companies. Furthermore, these charges may decrease the capital of the combined company that could be used for profitable, income-earning investments in the future. Any future acquisitions may result in unforeseen difficulties, including integration of the combined companies, which could require significant time and attention from our management that would otherwise be directed at developing our existing business and expenses may be higher than initially projected. In addition, we could discover undisclosed liabilities resulting from any acquisitions for which we may become responsible. Further, benefits such as enhanced earnings that we anticipate from these acquisitions may not develop and future results of the combined companies may be materially lower from those estimated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 