Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you make an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider all the information we have included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and read the risks and uncertainties related to “forward-looking statements” as set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Risks Related to the Verizon Transaction References to "the Company" in this section refer to Frontier as the combined company following the closing of the Verizon Transaction, assuming the Verizon Transaction closes. The Verizon Transaction may not be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or at all. The consummation of the Verizon Transaction is subject to certain conditions, including (i) the availability of financing on terms that satisfy certain requirements (including with respect to pricing and maturity) and the receipt of the proceeds thereof that, taken together with any Spinco debt securities and the aggregate amount of Spinco indebtedness at the distribution date, equal $3.333 billion, (ii) the absence of a governmental order that would constitute a materially adverse regulatory condition, (iii) the receipt of applicable regulatory consents, (iv) the receipt of certain favorable tax rulings from the Internal Revenue Service (which have been obtained) and certain tax opinions, (v) the absence of a material adverse effect on Frontier or on Spinco or the Spinco business and (vi) other customary closing conditions. We can make no assurances that the Verizon Transaction will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. We have and will continue to expend a significant amount of capital and management’s time and resources on the Verizon Transaction, and a failure to consummate the transaction as currently contemplated, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, Spinco may (with Frontier’s consent and participation) choose to raise all or a portion of the financing required to complete the Verizon Transaction described above prior to the closing of the Verizon Transaction. If Spinco does so, and if the Verizon transaction is ultimately not consummated or is delayed for a significant period of time, we could be obligated to pay significant interest expense and other costs in connection with the financing without ever achieving the expected benefits of the Verizon Transaction. The trading price of our securities could be adversely affected if the Verizon Transaction is not consummated as currently contemplated, or at all. 10 Frontier’s effort to combine Frontier’s business and the Spinco business may not be successful. The acquisition of the Spinco business is the largest and most significant acquisition Frontier has undertaken. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of Frontier’s business and the Spinco business, which may decrease the time it will have to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies. We expect that the Spinco business will operate on an independent basis, separate from Verizon’s other businesses and operations, immediately prior to the closing of the merger (other than with respect to the portion operated in West Virginia, which is expected to be ready for integration into Frontier’s existing business at the closing of the merger) and will not require significant post-closing integration for Frontier to continue the operations of the Spinco business immediately after the merger. However, the size and complexity of the Spinco business and the process of using Frontier’s existing common support functions and systems to manage the Spinco business after the merger, if not managed successfully by management, may result in interruptions of the business activities of the Company that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention before completion of the merger to the process of migrating the systems and processes supporting the operations of the Spinco business in West Virginia from systems owned and operated by Verizon to those owned and operated by Frontier. The size, complexity and timing of this migration, if not managed successfully by management, may result in interruptions of Frontier’s business activities. The Company may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the Company to realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies. The Company’s success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of Frontier’s business and operations and the Spinco business and operations. Even if the Company is able to integrate the Frontier and Spinco businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that Frontier currently expects from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. For example, the Company may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs, or the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. After the close of the Verizon Transaction, sales of our common stock may negatively affect its market price. The market price of Frontier common stock could decline as a result of sales of Frontier common stock in the market after the completion of the Verizon Transaction or the perception that these sales could occur. Depending on the trading prices of Frontier common stock prior to the closing of the Verizon Transaction and before accounting for (1) the elimination of fractional shares and (2) any additional shares that may be issued as a result of amounts paid, payable or forgone by Verizon pursuant to orders or settlements that are issued or entered into in order to obtain governmental approvals in the Spinco territory that are required to complete the transaction (with the number of additional shares that may be issued under clause (2) above being restricted by certain regulatory and other covenants and conditions to the transaction as agreed to by the parties), Verizon stockholders will collectively own between approximately 66% and 71% of our outstanding equity immediately following the closing of the transaction. If the assets contributed to Spinco by Verizon are insufficient to operate the Spinco business, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the distribution agreement executed in connection with the Verizon Transaction, Verizon will contribute to Spinco defined assets and liabilities of its local exchange business and related landline activities in the Spinco territory, including Internet access and long distance services and broadband video provided to designated customers in the Spinco territory. The merger agreement provides that all the contributions will be made so that the Spinco business (other than the portion conducted in West Virginia) is segregated from Verizon’s other businesses at least 60 days prior to the closing of the spin-off and merger. However, the contributed assets may not be sufficient to operate all aspects of the Spinco business and the Company may have to use assets or resources from Frontier’s existing business or acquire additional assets in order to operate the Spinco business, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Pursuant to the distribution agreement, Frontier has certain rights to cause Verizon to transfer to it any assets required to be contributed to Spinco under that agreement that were not contributed as required. If Verizon were unable or unwilling to transfer those assets to the Company, or if Verizon and Frontier were to disagree about whether those assets were required to be contributed to Spinco under the distribution agreement, the Company might not be able to obtain those assets or similar assets from others without significant costs or at all. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected following the merger if it is not able to obtain consents to assign certain Verizon contracts to Spinco. Certain wholesale, large business, Internet service provider and other customer contracts that are required to be assigned to Spinco by Verizon require the consent of the customer party to the contract to effect this assignment. Verizon and Frontier may be unable to obtain these consents on terms favorable to the Company or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations following the merger. Regulatory agencies may delay approval of the Verizon Transaction, fail to approve it, or approve it in a manner that may diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. Completion of the Verizon Transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain government consents, approvals, orders and authorizations. While Frontier and Verizon have obtained certain, and intend to pursue vigorously all other, required governmental approvals and do not know of any reason why they would not be able to obtain the necessary approvals in a timely manner, the requirement to receive these approvals before completion of the Verizon Transaction could delay the completion of the Verizon Transaction. Any delay in the completion of the Verizon Transaction could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Verizon Transaction or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenues or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction. Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the Verizon Transaction could make it more difficult for Frontier to maintain or to pursue particular business strategies. In addition, until the Verizon Transaction is completed, the attention of Frontier management may be diverted from ongoing business concerns and regular business responsibilities to the extent management is focused on obtaining regulatory approvals. Further, governmental agencies may decline to grant required approvals, or they may impose conditions on their approval of the Verizon Transaction that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Any amounts paid, payable or forgone by Verizon pursuant to orders or settlements that are issued or entered into in order to obtain governmental approvals in the Spinco territory that are required to complete the Verizon Transaction will increase the aggregate number of shares of Frontier common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement, and any such increase could be significant. If any governmental agency declines to grant any required approval for the Verizon Transaction, then the Verizon Transaction may not be consummated. In addition, conditions imposed by governmental agencies in connection with their approval of the Verizon Transaction (such as service quality or capital expenditure requirements) may restrict the Company’s ability to modify the operations of its business in response to changing circumstances for a period of time after the closing of the merger and/or its ability to expend cash for other uses, including for payment of dividends. The merger agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire Frontier. The merger agreement contains provisions that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to Frontier prior to the closing of the merger that might result in greater value to Frontier stockholders than the merger. The merger agreement generally prohibits Frontier from soliciting any acquisition proposal, and Frontier may not terminate the merger agreement in order to accept an alternative business combination proposal that might result in greater value to Frontier stockholders than the merger. If the merger agreement is terminated by Frontier or Verizon in certain circumstances, Frontier may be obligated to pay a termination fee of $80.0 million to Verizon, which would represent an additional cost for a potential third party seeking a business combination with Frontier. 12 Failure to complete the merger could adversely affect the trading price of Frontier’s securities as well as Frontier’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the merger is not completed for any reason, the trading price of Frontier’s common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of the common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the merger will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. Frontier may also be subject to additional risks if the merger is not completed, including: • the requirement in the merger agreement that, under certain circumstances, Frontier pay Verizon a termination fee of $80.0 million; • substantial costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, financial printing fees, and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue up to closing. While the Company continues to evaluate certain other expenses, we currently expect to incur approximately $100.0 million of integration expenses and approximately $75.0 million of capital expenditures in 2010; • substantial interest expense will be incurred if Spinco initiates the financing of the approximately $3.0 billion prior to closing; and • potential disruption to the business of Frontier and distraction of its workforce and management team. If the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of Verizon or Frontier, then Verizon or Verizon stockholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes, and Frontier may be obligated to indemnify Verizon for such taxes imposed on Verizon. The spin-off and merger are conditioned upon Verizon’s receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to Verizon, Spinco and the Verizon stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes (the IRS ruling). A private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS. The favorable IRS private letter ruling has been received by Verizon. As expected, the IRS ruling does not rule that the spin-off satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and the parties will rely solely on the opinion of counsel described below for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied. The IRS ruling is based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Verizon, Spinco and Frontier. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the IRS ruling. In addition, the IRS ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. The spin-off will be taxable to Verizon pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either Verizon or Spinco, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. Because Verizon stockholders will collectively own more than 50% of the Frontier common stock following the merger, the merger alone will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to Verizon under Section 355(e). However, Section 355(e) might apply if other acquisitions of stock of Verizon before or after the merger, or of Frontier after the merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. If Section 355(e) applied, Verizon might recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain. Under a tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, Frontier is required to indemnify Verizon against taxes on the spin-off that arise as a result of actions or failures to act by Frontier, or as a result of changes in ownership of the stock of Frontier after the merger. In some cases, however, Verizon might recognize gain on the spin-off without being entitled to an indemnification payment under the tax sharing agreement. 13 If the merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368 of the Code, Frontier may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes. Frontier expects that the merger will qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, and the obligation of Frontier to consummate the merger is conditioned upon receiving an opinion of counsel to that effect. Such opinion will be based upon, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Verizon, Spinco and Frontier. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the opinion. An opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In addition, the opinion will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the merger were taxable, Spinco stockholders would recognize taxable gain or loss on their receipt of Frontier stock in the merger, and Spinco would be considered to have made a taxable sale of its assets to Frontier. Frontier will be unable to take certain actions after the merger because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger, and such restrictions could be significant. Frontier is prohibited pursuant to a tax sharing agreement from taking actions that could reasonably be expected to cause the spin-off to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the IRS ruling or opinions of counsel received by Verizon or Frontier. In particular, for two years after the spin-off, Frontier may not: • enter into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engage in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition, issuance, repurchase or change of ownership of Frontier capital stock, or options or other rights in respect of Frontier capital stock, subject to certain exceptions relating to employee compensation arrangements, stock splits, open market stock repurchases and stockholder rights plans; • permit certain wholly owned subsidiaries owned by Spinco at the time of the spin-off to cease the active conduct of the Spinco business to the extent it was conducted immediately prior to the spin-off; or • voluntarily dissolve, liquidate, merge or consolidate with any other person, unless Frontier survives and the transaction otherwise complies with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement. The tax sharing agreement further restricts Frontier from prepaying, or modifying the terms of, the Spinco debt securities, if any. Nevertheless, Frontier is permitted to take any of the actions described above if it obtains Verizon’s consent, or if it obtains a supplemental IRS private letter ruling (or an opinion of counsel that is reasonably acceptable to Verizon) to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger. However, the receipt by Frontier of any such consent, opinion or ruling does not relieve Frontier of any obligation it has to indemnify Verizon for an action it takes that causes the spin-off to be taxable to Verizon. Because of these restrictions, for two years after the merger, Frontier may be limited in the amount of capital stock that it can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital. Also, Frontier’s indemnity obligation to Verizon may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of Frontier during this two-year period in a transaction that stockholders of Frontier might consider favorable. 14 Investors holding shares of Frontier common stock immediately prior to the merger will, in the aggregate, have a significantly reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. After the merger’s completion, Frontier stockholders will, in the aggregate, own a significantly smaller percentage of the Company than they will collectively own of Frontier immediately prior to the merger. Depending on the trading prices of Frontier common stock prior to the closing of the merger and before accounting for the elimination of fractional shares and adjustments for any amounts paid, payable or forgone by Verizon pursuant to orders or settlements that are issued or entered into in order to obtain governmental approvals in the Spinco territory that are required to complete the merger and the spin-off, Frontier stockholders will collectively own between approximately 29% and 34% of the Company’s outstanding equity immediately following the closing of the merger. Consequently, Frontier stockholder votes, collectively, will have significantly less influence over the policies of the Company than they would be able to exercise over the policies of Frontier immediately prior to the merger. Moreover, the number of shares of Frontier common stock to be issued to Verizon stockholders pursuant to the merger agreement is subject to increase by any amounts paid, payable or forgone by Verizon pursuant to orders or settlements that are issued or entered into in order to obtain government approvals in the Spinco territory that are required to complete the merger or the spin-off, and any such increase may be significant. In addition, Verizon intends to exercise its right to designate three of the twelve members of the board of directors of the Company. The pendency of the merger could adversely affect the business and operations of Frontier and the Spinco business. In connection with the pending merger, some customers of each of Frontier and the Spinco business may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with the relevant company, which could negatively affect the revenues, earnings and cash flows of Frontier and the Spinco business, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of Frontier and the Spinco business may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company following the merger, which may materially adversely affect the ability of each of Frontier and the Spinco business to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the merger. Risks Related to Frontier and the Company’s Business Following the Merger The risks discussed below in this section refer to the “Company” for ease of reference. The risks apply to Frontier as a stand-alone entity before the Verizon Transaction is completed, will continue to apply to Frontier if the Verizon Transaction is not completed for any reason and will also apply to the combined company assuming the Verizon Transaction closes. The Company will likely face further reductions in access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues and federal and state subsidy revenues, which could adversely affect it. The businesses that will make up the Company have experienced declining access lines, switched access minutes of use, long distance revenues, federal and state subsidies and related revenues because of economic conditions, increasing competition, changing consumer behavior (such as wireless displacement of wireline use, e-mail use, instant messaging and increasing use of VOIP), technology changes and regulatory constraint. For example, Frontier’s access lines declined 6% in 2009 and 7% in 2008. In addition, Frontier’s switched access minutes of use declined 12% in 2009 and 9% in 2008 (after excluding the switched access minutes added through acquisitons in 2007). The Spinco business’s access lines declined 11.6% in 2009 and 10% in 2008. In addition, the Spinco business’s switched access minutes of use declined 10% in 2009 and 11% in 2008. These factors, among others, are likely to cause the Company’s local network service, switched network access, long distance and subsidy revenues to continue to decline, and these factors may cause the Company’s cash generated by operations to decrease. 15 The Company will face intense competition, which could adversely affect it. The communications industry is extremely competitive and competition is increasing. The traditional dividing lines between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet service providers are becoming increasingly blurred. Through mergers and various service expansion strategies, service providers are striving to provide integrated solutions both within and across geographic markets. The Company’s competitors will include competitive local exchange carriers and other providers of services, such as Internet service providers, wireless companies, VOIP providers and cable companies that may provide services competitive with the services that the Company will offer or will intend to introduce. Competition will continue to be intense following the merger, and Frontier cannot assure you that the Company will be able to compete effectively. Frontier also believes that wireless and cable telephony providers have increased their penetration of various services in Frontier’s and Spinco’s markets. Frontier expects the Company to continue to lose access lines and that competition with respect to all the products and services of the Company will increase. Frontier expects competition to intensify as a result of the entrance of new competitors, penetration of existing competitors into new markets, changing consumer behavior and the development of new technologies, products and services that can be used in substitution for the Company’s products and services. Frontier cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important in order to maintain the Company’s competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. The Company’s ability to compete successfully will depend on the success and cost of capital expenditure investments in the Frontier and Spinco territories as well as the cost of marketing efforts and on the Company’s ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including a changing regulatory environment that may affect the Company and its competitors differently, new services that may be introduced (including wireless broadband offerings), changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. Increasing competition may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase the Company’s marketing and other costs as well as require the Company to increase its capital expenditures and thereby decrease its cash flow. Some of the Company’s future competitors will have superior resources, which may place the Company at a cost and price disadvantage. Some of the companies that will be competitors of the Company will have market presence, engineering, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, personnel and other resources substantially greater than those of the Company. In addition, some of these future competitors will be able to raise capital at a lower cost than the Company. Consequently, some of these competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than the Company. Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some future competitors may require the Company to price its services at lower levels in order to retain or obtain customers. Finally, the cost advantages of some of these competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. The Company may be unable to grow its revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives Frontier has implemented and intends to continue after the merger. The Company must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with funds available under Frontier’s revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to service the Company’s debt, fund its capital expenditures, pay its taxes, fund its pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay dividends pursuant to its dividend policy. Frontier has identified some potential areas of opportunity and has implemented and will continue to implement several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing or demonstrate meaningful demand such as wireline and wireless HSI, satellite video products and the “Frontier Peace of Mind” suite of products, including computer technical support. Frontier cannot assure you that management will choose the best initiatives to pursue, that their approaches to these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve the Company’s financial position or its results of operations. 16 Weak economic conditions may decrease demand for the Company’s services. The Company could be sensitive to the ongoing recession if current economic conditions or their effects continue. Downturns in the economy and competition in the Company’s markets could cause some of the Company’s customers to reduce or eliminate their purchases of the Company’s basic and enhanced services, HSI and video services and make it difficult for the Company to obtain new customers. In addition, if current economic conditions continue, they could cause the Company’s customers to delay or discontinue payment for its services. Disruption in the Company’s networks, infrastructure and information technology may cause the Company to lose customers and incur additional expenses. To attract and retain customers, the Company will need to provide customers with reliable service. Some of the risks to the Company’s networks, infrastructure and information technology include physical damage, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and disruptions beyond its control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company could experience short disruptions in its service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service failures of the Company’s third-party service providers. The Company could experience more significant disruptions in the future. The Company could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in the Company’s customers’ usage patterns for its HSI services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization, such as through increased usage of video or peer-to-peer file sharing applications. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause the Company to lose customers and incur additional expenses, and thereby adversely affect its business, revenues and cash flows. The Company’s business will be sensitive to the creditworthiness of its wholesale customers. The Company will have substantial business relationships with other telecommunications carriers for whom it will provide service. While bankruptcies of these carriers have not had a material adverse effect on Frontier or the Spinco business in recent years, future bankruptcies in their industry could result in the loss of significant customers by the Company, as well as more price competition and uncollectible accounts receivable. Such bankruptcies may be more likely in the future if current economic conditions continue through 2010 or beyond. As a result, the Company’s revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of the Company’s workforce will be represented by labor unions and will therefore be subject to collective bargaining agreements, and if the Company is unable to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements before they expire, the Company workers subject to collective bargaining agreements could engage in strikes or other labor actions that could materially disrupt the Company’s ability to provide services to its customers. As of December 31, 2009, Frontier had approximately 5,400 active employees. Approximately 2,800, or 52%, of these employees were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. Of the union-represented employees, approximately 750, or 27%, are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2010 and approximately 1,200, or 43%, are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2011. As of December 31, 2009, assuming the Verizon Transaction had taken place as of that date, Spinco would have had approximately 9,500 active employees. Approximately 6,800, or 72%, of these employees were represented by unions and were therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. Of the union-represented employees, approximately 3,300, or 49%, are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2010. Frontier cannot predict the outcome of negotiations for the collective bargaining agreements of the Company. If the Company is unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt the Company’s ability to provide services. New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on the Company, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations in the future. 17 The Company may complete a significant strategic transaction that may not achieve intended results or could increase the number of its outstanding shares or amount of outstanding debt or result in a change of control. The management of the Company will evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions. Any such transaction could happen at any time following the closing of the merger, could be material to the Company’s business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. Evaluating potential transactions and integrating completed ones may divert the attention of the Company’s management from ordinary operating matters. The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses the Company acquires with its existing business. Even if the Company is successful in integrating the acquired businesses, Frontier cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames. In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. If the Company completes an acquisition, investment or other strategic transaction, the Company may require additional financing that could result in an increase in the number of its outstanding shares or the aggregate amount of its debt, although there are restrictions on the ability of the Company to issue additional shares of stock for these purposes for two years after the merger. See Risks Relating to the Verizon Transaction—“Frontier will be unable to take certain actions after the merger because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger, and such restrictions could be significant.” The number of shares of the Company’s common stock or the aggregate principal amount of its debt that it may issue may be significant. A strategic transaction may result in a change in control of the Company or otherwise materially and adversely affect its business. A significant portion of the Company’s work force is retirement eligible. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 1,200, or 22%, of Frontier's approximately 5,400 active employees are retirement eligible. It is expected that a significant number of the Spinco employees are or will be retirement eligible at or prior to the time of closing of the Verizon Transaction. If these employees were to retire and could not be promptly replaced, customer service could be negatively impacted, which could have a material impact on the Company’s operations and financial results. If the Company is unable to hire or retain key personnel, it may be unable to successfully operate its business. The Company’s success will depend in part upon the continued services of its management. The Company cannot guarantee that these key personnel and others will not leave or compete with it. The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of the management team could have a material impact on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s financial results and its ability to compete will suffer should it become unable to attract, integrate or retain other qualified personnel in the future. 18 Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources and Capitalization The risks discussed below in this section refer to the “Company” for ease of reference. The risks apply to Frontier as a stand-alone entity before the Verizon Transaction is completed and will continue to apply to Frontier if the Verizon Transaction is not completed for any reason and will also apply to the combined company assuming the Verizon Transaction closes. If the lingering impact of the severe contraction in the global financial markets and current economic conditions continue through 2010, this economic scenario may have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. The diminished availability of credit and liquidity due to the lingering impact of the severe contraction in the global financial markets and current economic conditions may continue through 2010. This economic scenario may affect the financial health of the Company’s customers, vendors and partners, which in turn may negatively affect the Company’s revenues, operating expenses and cash flows. In addition, although Frontier believes, based on currently available information, that the financial institutions that have outstanding commitments under Frontier’s revolving credit facility will be able to fulfill their commitments to the Company, if the current economic environment and the recent severe contraction in the global financial markets continue through 2010 or beyond, this could change in the future. It is Frontier’s intention to replace its existing $250.0 million revolving credit facility with a significantly larger facility by the closing date of the Verizon Transaction. Volatility in asset values related to Frontier’s pension plan and our assumption of Spinco’s pension plan obligations may require us to make cash contributions to fund pension plan liabilities. As a result of the ongoing payment of benefits and negative investment returns arising from a contraction in the global financial markets, Frontier’s pension plan assets have declined from $822.2 million at December 31, 2007, to $608.6 million at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $213.6 million, or 26%. This decrease consisted of a decline in asset value of $72.8 million, or 9%, and benefits paid of $140.8 million, or 17%. As a result of the continued accrual of pension benefits under the applicable pension plan and the cumulative negative investment returns arising from the contraction of the global financial markets since 2007, Frontier’s pension expenses increased in 2009. While the pension asset values have increased in 2009, Frontier expects to make a cash contribution to its pension plan of $10.0 million in 2010. Once the merger is consummated, the Company will maintain Frontier’s pension plan and will be responsible for contributions to fund the plan’s liabilities, and may be required to continue making these cash contributions in respect of liabilities under Frontier’s pension plan. The Company will also, upon consummation of the merger, maintain pension plans that assume the Spinco business’s pension plan liabilities for active employees. The applicable Verizon tax-qualified pension plans will transfer assets to the Spinco pension plans pursuant to applicable law and the terms of the employee matters agreement entered into among Verizon, Spinco and Frontier. The aggregate transfer related to the tax-qualified pension plans for active union employees will be sufficient for full funding of projected benefit obligations in the aggregate. Following the merger, the Company will be responsible for making any required contributions to the new pension plans to fund liabilities of the plans, and the ongoing pension expenses of the Spinco business may require the Company to make cash contributions in respect of the Spinco business’s pension plan liabilities. 19 Substantial debt and debt service obligations may adversely affect us. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which amounted to approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2009. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under the terms of our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. If the Verizon Transaction is completed, the Company will have additional indebtedness in the amount of approximately $3.4 billion at the closing of the Verizon Transaction. Despite the substantial additional indebtedness that the Company would then have, the Company would not be prohibited from incurring even more indebtedness. If the Verizon Transaction is completed and the Company was to incur additional indebtedness, the risks that result from our substantial indebtedness could be magnified. The potential significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include: • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing, particularly in light of the current credit environment; • instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness; • the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures and dividends that could improve our competitive position, results of operations or stock price; • requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and • the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources. The Company will require substantial capital to upgrade and enhance its operations. Verizon’s historical capital expenditures in connection with the Spinco business, excluding FiOS, have been significantly lower than Frontier’s level of capital expenditures. Replacing or upgrading the Company’s infrastructure will require significant capital expenditures, including any expected or unexpected expenditures necessary to make replacements or upgrades to the existing infrastructure of the Spinco business. If this capital is not available when needed, the Company’s business will be adversely affected. Responding to increases in competition, offering new services, and improving the capabilities of, or reducing the maintenance costs associated with, the Company’s plant may cause the Company’s capital expenditures to increase in the future. In addition, the Company’s anticipated annual dividend will utilize a significant portion of the Company’s cash generated by operations and therefore could limit the Company’s ability to increase capital expenditures significantly. While Frontier believes that the Company’s anticipated cash flows will be adequate to maintain this dividend policy while allowing for appropriate capital spending and other purposes, any material reduction in cash generated by operations and any increases in planned capital expenditures, interest expense or cash taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for further capital expenditures and payment of dividends. Accelerated losses of access lines, the effects of increased competition, lower subsidy and access revenues and the other factors described above may reduce the Company’s cash generated by operations and may require the Company to increase capital expenditures. 20 Risks Related to Regulation The risks discussed below in this section refer to the “Company” for ease of reference. The risks apply to Frontier as a stand-alone entity before the Verizon Transaction is completed and will continue to apply to Frontier if the Verizon Transaction is not completed for any reason and will also apply to the combined company assuming the Verizon Transaction closes. Changes in federal or state regulations may reduce the access charge revenues the Company will receive. A significant portion of Frontier’s revenues (approximately $246.3 million, or 12%, in 2009) are derived from access charges paid by other carriers for services Frontier provides in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate long distance traffic. As a result, Frontier expects a significant portion (approximately 7%) of the Company’s revenues to continue to be derived from access charges paid by these carriers for services that the Company will provide in originating and terminating this traffic. The amount of access charge revenues that Frontier and the Spinco business receive (and, after the closing, the Company will receive) for these services is regulated by the FCC and state regulatory agencies. The FCC is considering proposals that may significantly change interstate, intrastate and local intercarrier compensation. When and how these proposed changes will be addressed are unknown and, accordingly, Frontier cannot predict the impact of future changes on the Company’s results of operations. However, future reductions in the Company’s access revenues will directly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows as those regulatory revenues do not have associated variable expenses. Certain states also have open proceedings to address reform to access charges and other intercarrier compensation. Frontier cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on the Company’s subsidy or access revenues. In addition, Frontier has been approached by, and is currently involved in formal state proceedings with, various carriers seeking reductions in intrastate access rates in certain states. Certain of those claims have led to formal complaints to the applicable state regulatory agencies. A material reduction in the access revenues the Company will receive would adversely affect its financial results. The Company will be reliant on support funds provided under federal and state laws. A portion of Frontier’s revenues (approximately $113.3 million in the aggregate, or 5%, in 2009) are derived from federal and state subsidies for rural and high cost support, commonly referred to as universal service fund subsidies, including the Federal High Cost Loop Fund, federal interstate access support, federal interstate common line support, federal local switching support fund, various state funds and surcharges billed to customers. The FCC and state regulatory agencies are currently considering a number of proposals for changing the manner in which eligibility for federal and state subsidies is determined as well as the amounts of such subsidies. The FCC issued an order on May 1, 2008 to cap the amounts that CETCs may receive from the high cost Federal Universal Service Fund (USF). In 2009, a Federal court upheld the FCC’s order and the cap remains in place pending any future reform. In November 2008, the FCC issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on several different alternatives, some of which could significantly reduce the amount of federal high cost universal service support that the Company would receive. Frontier cannot predict if or when the FCC will take additional actions or the effect of any such actions on the Company’s subsidy revenues. Federal subsidies representing interstate access support, rural high cost loop support and local switching support represented approximately $69.1 million, or 3%, of Frontier’s revenues in 2009. Frontier currently expects that as a result of both an increase in the national average cost per loop and a decrease in Frontier’s and the Spinco business’s cost structure, there will be a decrease in the subsidy revenues Frontier and the Spinco business will earn in 2010 through the Federal High Cost Loop Fund. The amount of federal interstate access support funds received may also decline as that fund is also subject to a national cap and the amounts allocated among carriers within that cap can vary from year to year. State subsidies represented approximately $8.7 million, or less than 1%, of Frontier’s revenues in 2009. Approximately $35.5 million, or 2%, of Frontier’s 2009 revenues, represents a surcharge to customers (local, long distance and interconnection) to recover universal service fund contribution fees which are remitted to the FCC and recorded as an expense in “other operating expenses.” Frontier expects that approximately 5% of the Company’s revenue will continue to be derived from federal and state subsidies, and from surcharges to customers. 21 The Company and its industry will likely remain highly regulated, and the Company will likely incur substantial compliance costs that could constrain its ability to compete in its target markets. As an incumbent local exchange carrier, the Company will be subject to significant regulation from federal, state and local authorities. This regulation will restrict the Company’s ability to change its rates, especially on its basic services and its access rates, and will impose substantial compliance costs on the Company. Regulation will constrain the Company’s ability to compete and, in some jurisdictions, it may restrict how the Company is able to expand its service offerings. In addition, changes to the regulations that govern the Company may have an adverse effect upon its business by reducing the allowable fees that it may charge, imposing additional compliance costs or otherwise changing the nature of its operations and the competition in its industry. Pending FCC rulemakings and state regulatory proceedings, including those relating to intercarrier compensation and universal service, could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Risks Related to Technology The risks discussed below in this section refer to the “Company” for ease of reference. The risks apply to Frontier as a stand-alone entity before the Verizon Transaction is completed and will continue to apply to Frontier if the Verizon Transaction is not completed for any reason and will also apply to the combined company assuming the Verizon Transaction closes. In the future, as competition intensifies within the Company’s markets, the Company may be unable to meet the technological needs or expectations of its customers, and may lose customers as a result. The communications industry is subject to significant changes in technology. If the Company does not replace or upgrade technology and equipment, it may be unable to compete effectively because it will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of its customers. Replacing or upgrading the combined infrastructure could result in significant capital expenditures. In addition, rapidly changing technology in the communications industry may influence the Company’s customers to consider other service providers. For example, the Company may be unable to retain customers who decide to replace their wireline telephone service with wireless telephone service. In addition, VoIP technology, which operates on broadband technology, now provides the Company’s competitors with a competitive alternative to provide voice services to the Company’s customers, and wireless broadband technologies may permit the Company’s competitors to offer broadband data services to the Company’s customers throughout most or all of its service areas. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 