Item 1A. Risk Factors Credit losses. We extend unsecured credit to most of our customers. We recognize that extending credit and setting appropriate reserves for receivables is largely a subjective decision based on knowledge of the customer and the industry. Credit exposure also includes the amount of estimated unbilled sales. Determining credit limits, setting and maintaining credit standards, and managing the overall quality of the credit portfolio is largely decentralized. The level of credit is influenced by the customer’s credit history with us and other available information, including industry-specific data. We maintain a reserve account for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to pay, additional allowances might be required. We use a combination of the percentage-of-sales, specific identification and the aging-of-accounts-receivable methods to establish allowances for losses on accounts receivable. Payment in advance for some advertising and circulation revenue has assisted us in maintaining historical bad debt losses at less than 1% of revenue. Newsprint. We consumed approximately 600,000 metric tons of newsprint in 2005. This expense represented 13.2% of our 2005 total operating expenses. A sustained increase in newsprint prices could adversely affect our profitability. Newsprint prices for the past five years have ranged from approximately $425 to $625 per metric ton. We anticipate a low double-digit increase in newsprint prices in 2006. Debt. By balancing the mix of variable- versus fixed-rate borrowings, we manage the interest rate risk of our debt. “Note 3. Debt” includes information related to the contractual interest rates and fair value of the individual borrowings. At various times, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate exposure in order to achieve a desired proportion of variable-rate versus fixed-rate debt. The fair value of the swaps at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, was $8.9 million and $34.2 million, respectively. As of the end of fiscal 2005, approximately 53% of our borrowings were variable-rate. We do not trade or engage in hedging for speculative purposes and hedging activities are transacted only with highly rated financial institutions, reducing the exposure to credit risk. A hypothetical 50 basis point increase in London InterBank Offering Rate (LIBOR) would increase interest expense associated with variable-rate borrowings by approximately $5.2 million and $5.7 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt and interest rate swaps is sensitive to changes in interest rates. A hypothetical 50 basis points increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of the fixed-rate debt and interest rate swaps by $35.9 million in 2006. This change in fair value of debt obligations excludes commercial paper and other short-term variable-rate borrowings, as changes in interest rates would not significantly affect the fair market value of these instruments. Senior management. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent on the services of our senior management team. If we were unable to retain the existing senior management personnel, develop future senior management within our existing ranks or attract other qualified senior management personnel, our business would be adversely affected. Employee benefits. Health insurance costs have increased significantly faster than inflation on an annual basis over the past few years. We also anticipate that in coming years, the cost of health care will continue to escalate, causing an increase to our expenses and employee contributions. In response to these trends, we have restructured and consolidated our health insurance plans, which has substantially mitigated inflationary trends. 6 Table of Contents Our pension and other retirement benefit costs have increased in recent years largely due to stock market and interest rate conditions. We will continue to reassess our benefits offering to remain competitive and manage our costs. Under our discussion of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we provide an estimate of the impact of a change in the discount rate used in the valuation of our pension plans. Competition and customer consolidation. We are subject to aggressive competition in all areas of our business. Our newspapers compete for advertising and readers with other newspapers, broadcast, satellite and cable television, the Internet and other computer services, radio, magazines, suburban newspapers, free shoppers, billboards and direct mail. We could also be adversely affected by continued customer consolidation in the retail and national sectors. Circulation. The newspaper publishing industry continues to experience some circulation decline, with several factors contributing: (a) the ongoing impact of the federally imposed do-not-call lists (now two years old), which limit telemarketing of subscription sales; (b) the ripple effects of the circulation misstatements by three large publishers in 2004, which gave rise to increased scrutiny of, and limitations on, the bulk/third party sales that had been a source of circulation growth; and (c) the Internet, which creates competition for readers’ time. We have taken steps to meet each of these challenges, including strengthening practices aimed at compliance with industry-wide accepted procedures in accounting and circulation reporting. Nevertheless, ongoing decline in circulation copies could have a material effect on the rate and volume of our advertising revenue. Self-insurance and deductibles on casualty insurance. We are self-insured for the majority of our health insurance costs, including claims filed and claims incurred but not reported. We also have deductibles of up to $1 million on various casualty insurance programs, which we have determined to be adequate for the type of risk. We estimate the liability under our health insurance and casualty programs on an actuarial undiscounted basis using individual case-based valuations and statistical analysis that are based upon judgment and historical experience. The final cost of many of these claims may not be known for several years, however. We rely on the advice of consulting actuaries and administrators in determining an adequate liability for self-insurance claims. At December 25, 2005 and December 26, 2004, self-insurance and casualty insurance accruals totaled $75.7 million and $72.6 million, respectively. In connection with our insurance program, letters of credit totaling $56.5 million are required to support certain projected workers’ compensation obligations. As a requirement of our 2006 insurance renewal the letters of credit will be increased by $3.8 million on April 1, 2006 and another $3.8 million on July 1, 2006 for a total of $64.1 million. We continuously review the adequacy of our insurance coverage. Our exploration of strategic alternatives could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operations and results. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted by our decision to explore a range of strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value or by any transaction which may result from such exploration process. In addition, the actions we are taking or may take in the future may affect our ability to attract and retain customers, management and employees, may lead to a diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns, and may result in the incurrence of significant advisory fees, litigation costs and other expenses. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction. We do not intend to disclose developments with respect to the exploration of strategic alternatives unless and until the Board of Directors has approved a specific transaction or course of action. Web Site Access to Our Reports Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our Web site, www.kri.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 7 Table of Contents Information regarding corporate governance at Knight Ridder, including our corporate governance principles, code of business ethics and information regarding our officers, directors and board committees (including our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance committee charters) is also available on our Web site. The information on our Web site is not incorporated by reference into, or as part of, this Report on Form 10-K. 