Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risk factors we describe below, as well as other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in our SEC filings. Our results of operations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, and quarter to quarter comparisons may not be a good indicator of our performance. Seasonal demand fluctuations may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to sell our products. Approximately 54% of our sales are all occasion with the remainder attributable to seasonal (Christmas, Halloween, Valentine’s Day and Easter) products. Approximately 32% of our sales relate to the Christmas season. The seasonal nature of our business has historically resulted in lower sales levels and operating losses in our first and fourth quarters, and higher sales levels and operating profits in our second and third quarters. As a result, our quarterly results of operations fluctuate during our fiscal year, and a quarter to quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or how we will perform in the future. For example, our overall results of operations in the future may fluctuate substantially based on seasonal demand for our products. Such variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of cash flow and therefore our ability to meet our obligations with respect to our debt and other financial commitments. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry significant amounts of inventory, especially before the Christmas retail selling period. If we are not successful in selling the inventory during the relevant period, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all. We rely on a few mass market retailers, warehouse clubs and national drug store chains for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of sales, or a significant reduction of sales, to one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Past and future consolidation within the retail sector also may lead to reduced profit margins, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. Our sales to Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates and Target Corporation accounted for approximately 25% and 13% of our sales, respectively, during our 2012 fiscal year. No other single customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales in fiscal 2012. Our ten largest customers, which include mass market retailers, warehouse clubs and national drug store chains, accounted for approximately 57% of our sales in our 2012 fiscal year. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and define product and market trends, and to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our large customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past. The loss of sales, or a significant reduction of sales, to one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, in recent years there has been consolidation among our retail customer base. As the retail sector consolidates, our customers become larger, and command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale of our products, including credits, discounts, allowances and other incentive considerations to these customers. Past and future consolidation may lead to reduced profit margins, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 4 Table of Contents Increases in raw material and energy costs, resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or pandemics, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Paper and petroleum-based materials are essential in the manufacture of our products, and the cost of such materials is significant to our cost of goods sold. Energy costs, especially fuel costs, also are significant expenses in the production and delivery of our products. Increased costs of raw materials or energy resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or pandemics, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products. Risks associated with our use of foreign suppliers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a large portion of our product lines, particularly our Halloween, Easter, Christmas boxed greeting cards, gift bags, gift tags, gift boxes, gift card holders, decorative tissue paper, classroom exchange Valentines, craft and educational products, stickers, memory books, stationery, journals, notecards, infant and wedding photo albums and scrapbook product lines, we use foreign suppliers to manufacture a significant portion of our products. Approximately 66% of our sales in fiscal 2012 were related to products sourced from foreign suppliers. Our use of foreign suppliers exposes us to risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States, including risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, transportation costs and delays or disruptions, difficulties in maintaining and monitoring quality control, enforceability of agreed upon contract terms, compliance with existing and new United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and legislation and regulations relating to imported products, costs relating to the imposition or retrospective application of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions on imported products, economic, civil or political instability, labor-related issues, such as labor shortages or wage disputes or increases, international public health issues, and restrictions on the repatriation of profits and assets. Increased overseas sourcing by our competitors and our customers may reduce our market share and profit margins, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have relatively high market share in many of our seasonal product categories. Most of our product markets have shown little or no growth, and some of our product markets have declined, in recent years, and we continue to confront significant cost pressure as our competitors source certain products from overseas and certain customers increase direct sourcing from overseas factories. Increased overseas sourcing by our competitors and certain customers may result in a reduction of our market share and profit margins, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. Difficulties encountered by our key customers may cause them to reduce their purchases from us and/or increase our exposure to losses from bad debts, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our largest customers are national and regional retail chains. The retail channel in the United States has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years. In addition, leveraged buyouts of certain large retailers in recent years have left these companies with significant levels of debt. Furthermore, effects from the worldwide economic slowdown that began in our 2009 fiscal year, including reduced, delayed or foregone consumer spending and increased difficulty and costs associated with obtaining the financing and capital needed by retailers to operate their businesses, has adversely affected retailers in general, including our key customers. A prolonged economic slowdown or a slow economic recovery, or even an uncertain economic outlook, could further adversely affect our key customers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if, as a result of these factors, our customers file for bankruptcy protection and/or cease doing business, significantly reduce the number of stores they operate, significantly reduce their purchases from us, do not pay us for their purchases, or if their payments to us are delayed because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond our control. 5 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by volatility in the demand for our products. Our success depends on the sustained demand for our products. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among other things, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, the effects of war, terrorism or threats of war, fuel prices, consumer demand for our products based upon, among other things, consumer trends and the availability of alternative products, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The worldwide economic slowdown that began in our 2009 fiscal year, in addition to adversely affecting our customers, has adversely affected consumer spending on discretionary items, including our products, which, in turn, has adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition. A prolonged economic slowdown or a slow economic recovery, or even an uncertain economic outlook, could further adversely affect consumer spending on discretionary items, including our products, which, in turn, could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also routinely utilize new artwork, designs or licensed intellectual property in connection with our products, and our inability to design, select, procure, maintain or sell consumer-desired artwork, designs or licensed intellectual property could adversely affect the demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors. Our success depends in part on our ability to compete against our competitors in our highly competitive markets. Our competitors, including large domestic corporations, such as Hallmark and American Greetings Corporation, foreign manufacturers who market directly to our customer base, importers of products produced overseas and small privately owned businesses, may be able to offer similar products with more favorable pricing and/or terms of sale or may be able to provide products that more readily meet customer requirements or consumer preferences. Our inability to successfully compete against our competitors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. Our success depends, to a substantial extent, on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management. In order to hire and retain qualified personnel, including our senior management team, we seek to provide competitive compensation programs. Our inability to retain our senior management team, or our inability to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel, may adversely affect us. We also regularly hire a large number of seasonal employees. Any difficulty we may encounter in hiring seasonal employees may result in significant increases in labor costs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining contracts with our labor union, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike, or other work stoppage. Approximately 105 of our employees at our ribbon manufacturing facility in Hagerstown, Maryland are represented by a labor union. The collective bargaining agreement with the labor union representing the Hagerstown-based production and maintenance employees will expire on December 31, 2014. Although we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our union arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work related stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Employee benefit costs may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We seek to provide competitive employee benefit programs to our employees. Employee benefit costs, such as healthcare costs of our eligible and participating employees, may increase significantly at a rate that is difficult 6 Table of Contents to forecast, in part because we are unable to determine the impact that certain enacted, contested federal healthcare legislation may have on our employer-sponsored medical plans. Higher employee benefit costs could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition strategy involves risks, and difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support, strengthen and grow our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire possible acquisition candidates, acquire such candidates on commercially reasonable terms, or integrate acquired businesses successfully. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain customers or management personnel. Also, prior to our completion of any acquisition, we could fail to discover liabilities of the acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator in spite of any investigation we may make prior to the acquisition. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. The diversion of management attention, particularly in a difficult operating environment, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy to continuously review the efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of our business may result in our decision to divest or close selected operations. Any divesture or closure involves risks, and decisions to divest or close selected operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly evaluate the efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of our business, including our competitiveness within our product categories. As part of such review, we also regularly evaluate the efficiency and productivity of our production and distribution facilities. In fiscal 2012, as part of our continuing review of our Cleo business, we sold the Christmas gift wrap portion of such business and closed our former gift wrap manufacturing facility that was located in Memphis, Tennessee. If we decide to divest a portion of our business, we cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable buyers or that we will be able to complete such divestiture successfully, timely or on commercially reasonable terms. If we decide to close a portion of our business, we cannot be sure of the effect such closure would have on the productivity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of our business, including our ongoing relationships with suppliers and customers, or of the expected success, timing or costs relating to such closure. Activities associated with any divestiture or closure may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. Based on the factors described above, future decisions to divest or close any portion of our business may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights, or infringement claims asserted against us by others, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a number of copyrights, patents, tradenames, trademarks and intellectual property licenses which are used in connection with our products. While our operations are not dependent upon any individual copyright, patent, tradename, trademark or intellectual property license, we believe that the collective value of our intellectual property is substantial. We rely upon copyright and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions and on confidentiality agreements with some of our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. If our proprietary rights were infringed, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, our activities could infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, who could assert infringement claims against us. We could face costly litigation if we are forced to defend these claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending such claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We seek to register our trademarks in the United States and elsewhere. These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, our confidentiality agreements with some employees or others may not provide adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use 7 Table of Contents or disclosure of our proprietary information, or if our proprietary information otherwise becomes known, or is independently developed by competitors. Various laws and governmental regulations applicable to a manufacturer or distributor of consumer products may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to labor and employment, product safety, including regulations enforced by the United States Consumer Products Safety Commission, import and export activities, the Internet and e-commerce, antitrust issues, taxes, chemical usage, air emissions, wastewater and storm water discharges and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance with these requirements, or the affect on our operations, any of which may be significant. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or prohibitions on importing or exporting. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or concerns about product safety, also may lead to a recall or post-manufacture repair of selected products, resulting in the rejection of our products by our customers and consumers, lost sales, increased customer service and support costs, and costly litigation. There is risk that any claims or liabilities, including product liability claims, relating to such noncompliance may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Further, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations with respect to the Internet and e-commerce activities, which cover issues relating to user privacy, data protection, copyrights and consumer protection, may subject us to significant liabilities. We cannot be certain that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by national or global changes in economic or political conditions. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by national or global changes in economic or political conditions, including foreign currency fluctuations and fluctuations in inflation and interest rates, a national or international economic downturn, and any future terrorist attacks, and the national and global military, diplomatic and financial exposure to such attacks or other threats. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by our ability to successfully manage our information technology (“IT”) infrastructure. We rely upon our IT infrastructure to operate our business. If we suffer damage, interruption, or impairment of our IT infrastructure resulting from human error, vandalism, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, a computer virus or a malfunction of an IT application, we could experience substantial operational issues, including loss of data or information, unanticipated increases in costs, disruption of operations or business interruption. Our inability to successfully manage our IT infrastructure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our borrowing arrangements, including customary operating restrictions and customary financial covenants. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants. Our borrowing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including customary operating restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional debt, making investments, granting liens on our assets, making capital expenditures, paying dividends and making other distributions on our capital stock, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and repurchases of our capital stock. Under such arrangements, we are also subject to customary financial covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain our capital expenditures below a maximum permitted amount each year and to keep our tangible net worth and 8 Table of Contents our interest coverage ratio at or above certain minimum levels. Compliance with the financial covenants contained in our borrowing arrangements is based on financial measures derived from our operating results. If our business, results of operations or financial condition is adversely affected by one or more of the risk factors described above, or other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K or elsewhere in our filings with the SEC, we may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants. If we fail to comply with such covenants, our lenders under our borrowing arrangements could stop advancing funds to us under these arrangements and/or demand immediate payment of amounts outstanding under such arrangements. Under such circumstances, we would need to seek alternate financing sources to fund our ongoing operations and to repay amounts outstanding and satisfy our other obligations under our existing borrowing arrangements. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Consequently, we may be restricted in how we fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives and deploy capital, and in our ability to make acquisitions and to pay dividends. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected if we are unable to maintain compliance with the covenants under our borrowing arrangements. If our business, results of operations or financial condition is adversely affected as a result of any of the risk factors described above or elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, we may be required to incur financial statement charges, such as asset or goodwill impairment charges, which may, in turn, have a further adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $11,051,000 primarily due to a full impairment of the tangible assets in our former Cleo manufacturing facility that was located in Memphis, Tennessee (of which $10,738,000 is recorded in discontinued operations and $313,000 is recorded in continuing operations). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $44,315,000 due to a full impairment of goodwill in our BOC Design Group (consisting of Berwick Offray and Cleo) and C.R. Gibson reporting units, and partial impairments of trademarks used by such entities. If our business, results of operations or financial condition are adversely affected by one or more circumstances, such as any one or more of the risk factors above or other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in our SEC filings, we then may be required under applicable accounting rules to incur additional charges associated with reducing the carrying value on our financial statements of certain assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets or tangible assets. Goodwill is subject to an assessment for impairment using a two-step fair value-based test, the first step of which must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. We perform our required annual assessment as of our fiscal year end. The first step of the test compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, as of the date of the test. We use both a market approach and an income approach to determine the fair value of our reporting units because we believe that the use of multiple valuation techniques results in a more accurate indicator of the fair value of each of our reporting units. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the goodwill to the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill, an impairment loss will be reported. Other indefinite lived intangible assets, such as our tradenames, also are required to be tested annually. We calculate the fair value of our tradenames using a “relief from royalty payments” methodology. We also review long-lived assets, except for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. If such assets are considered to be impaired, we will recognize, for impairment purposes, an amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. If we are required to incur any of the foregoing financial charges, our results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 9 Table of Contents 