ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to various risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. As a result of these and other factors, the Company may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. An investment in the Company's stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"), and those that are detailed from time to time in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, before you decide whether to purchase the Company's common stock. The Company is in a competitive business. The real estate industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for tenants for its unoccupied rental space with a large number of real estate property owners and other companies that sublet properties. The Company's principal means of competition are rents charged in relation to the income producing potential of the location. In addition, the Company expects other major real estate investors, some with much greater resources than the Company has, may compete with the Company for attractive acquisition opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. This competition has increased prices for commercial properties and may impair the Company's ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. The Company is subject to risks inherent in owning, developing and leasing real estate. The Company is subject to varying degrees of risk generally related to leasing and owning real estate, many of which are beyond the Company's control. In addition to general risks related to owning commercial real estate, the Company's risks include, among others: - deterioration in regional and local economic and real estate market conditions, - failure to complete construction and lease-up on schedule or within budget may increase debt service expense and construction and other costs, - increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents, - changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, - fluctuations in tourism patterns, - adverse changes in laws and regulations (including tax, environmental, zoning and building codes, landlord/tenant and other housing laws and regulations) and agency or court interpretations of such laws and regulations and the related costs of compliance, - potential changes in supply of, or demand for rental properties similar to the Company's, - competition for tenants and changes in rental rates, - concentration in a single real estate asset and class, - difficulty in reletting properties on favorable terms or at all, - impairments in the Company's ability to collect rent payments when due, - the potential for uninsured casualty and other losses, - the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, - changes in federal or state tax laws, and - acts of terrorism and war. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to receive distributions from its properties and investments and the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which means that the Company's ability to promptly sell the Company's property in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be limited. Development and redevelopment activities may be delayed, not completed, and/or not achieve expected results. As the Company pursues investments in and/or development and redevelopment projects, these projects generally require various governmental and other approvals, which have no assurance of being received. The Company's investment in development and redevelopment activities generally entail certain risks, including the following: - funds may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may not be completed, - construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly making the project economically unfeasible, - projects may be delayed due to, without limitation, adverse weather conditions, labor or material shortages, - occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may be less than anticipated, and - expenses at completed development projects may be higher than anticipated. These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Further, investment in and the development and redevelopment of real estate is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. For further information regarding these risks, see the risk factor "The Company is subject to risks inherent in owning, developing and leasing real estate." Fluctuations in the local market in which the Company's current, equity investment in a development property is located may adversely impact the Company's financial condition and operating results. The Company's current, equity investment in a development property is located in New York City. This geographic concentration could present risks if the New York City property market performance falls below expectations. The economic condition of this market could affect occupancy, property revenues, and expenses, from the property and its underlying asset value. The financial results of major local employers also may impact the cash flow and value of a property. This could have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results, which could affect the Company's ability to receive distributions from its investment interest in the property. Property ownership through equity investments and/or in joint ventures could subject us to the differing business objectives of our co-venturers. The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, equity investments and/or joint ventures (including limited liability companies and partnerships) in which the Company does not hold a direct or controlling interest in the assets underlying the entities in which it invests, including equity investments and/or joint ventures in which (i) the Company owns a direct interest in an entity which controls such assets, or (ii) the Company owns a direct interest in an entity which owns indirect interests, through one or more intermediaries, of such assets. These equity investments and/or joint ventures may include ventures through which the Company would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100 percent of a property owned directly by such joint ventures, and may include equity investments and/or joint ventures that the Company does not control or manage. These investments involve risks that do not exist with properties in which the Company owns a controlling interest with respect to the underlying assets, including the possibility that (i) our co-venturers or partners may, at any time, become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due, (ii) we may be responsible to our co-venturers or partners for indemnifiable losses, (iii) we may become liable with respect to guarantees of payment or performance by the joint ventures, (iv) we may become subject to buy-sell arrangements which could cause us to sell our interests or acquire our co-venturer's or partner's interests in a joint venture, or (v) our co-venturers or partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. Even where we have major decision rights or do not have major decision rights, because we lack a controlling interest, our co-venturers or partners may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. While we seek protective rights against such contrary actions, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in procuring any such protective rights, or if procured, that the rights will be sufficient to fully protect us against contrary actions. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in equity investments and/or joint ventures and/or partnerships. If the objectives of our co-venturers or partners are inconsistent with ours, it may adversely affect our ability to make receive and distributions or payments to our investors. Our insurance coverage on our property or properties may be inadequate or our insurance providers may default on their obligations to pay claims. We currently carry comprehensive insurance on our property or properties, including insurance for liability, fire and flood. We cannot guarantee that the limits of our current policies will be sufficient in the event of a catastrophe to our property or properties. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, while our current insurance policies insure us against loss from terrorist acts and toxic mold, in the future, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against these types of losses, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. If any or all of the foregoing should occur, we may not have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property or properties. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Such events could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of our insurance providers were to fail to pay a claim as a result of insolvency, bankruptcy or otherwise, the nonpayment of such claims could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more of our insurance providers were to become subject to insolvency, bankruptcy or other proceedings and our insurance policies with the provider were terminated or canceled as a result of those proceedings, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to find alternative coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In such case, we could experience a lapse in any or adequate insurance coverage with respect to one or more properties and be exposed to potential losses relating to any claims that may arise during such period of lapsed or inadequate coverage. Illiquidity of real estate limits our ability to act quickly. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Such illiquidity may limit our ability to react quickly in response to changes in economic and other conditions. If we want to sell an investment, we might not be able to dispose of that investment in the time period we desire, and the sales price of that investment might not recoup or exceed the amount of our investment. These limitations on our ability to sell our properties or investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We are dependent upon our executive officers for strategic business direction and real estate experience. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect our operations. We have entered into an employment agreement with Richard A. Bianco, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We do not presently have key man life insurance for our executive officers, however, the Company is in process of obtaining such insurance with regard to Mr. R. A. Bianco. The Company may not be able to insure certain risks economically. The Company may experience economic harm if any damage to the Company's property or properties is not covered by insurance. The Company cannot be certain that the Company will be able to insure all risks that the Company desires to insure economically or that all of the Company's insurers will be financially viable if the Company makes a claim. The Company may suffer losses that are not covered under the Company's insurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, the Company could lose capital invested in a property or properties, as well as any future revenue from the property or properties. Changes in the composition of the Company's assets and liabilities through acquisitions, divestitures or corporate restructuring may affect the Company's results. The Company may make future acquisitions or divestitures of assets or changes in how such assets are held. Any change in the composition of the Company's assets and liabilities or how such assets and liabilities are held could significantly affect the Company's financial position and the risks that the Company faces. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize the Company's deferred tax asset. The Company has federal income tax net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and other tax attributes that have been assumed to be utilized due to the uncertain tax position reserve recognized by the Company. Because the Company from time to time maintains a majority of its assets in securities, the Company may in the future be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 resulting in additional costs and regulatory burdens. Currently, the Company believes that either it is not within the definition of "Investment Company" as the term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act") or, alternatively, may rely on one or more of the 1940 Act's exemptions. The Company intends to continue to conduct its operations in a manner that will exempt the Company from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. If the Company were to be deemed to be an investment company because of the Company's investments securities holdings, the Company would be required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act places significant restrictions on the capital structure and corporate governance of a registered investment company, and materially restricts its ability to conduct transactions with affiliates. Compliance with the 1940 Act could also increase the Company's operating costs. Such changes could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market, on which the Company's common stock trades, the markets in which the Company operates the Company's operations and the Company's results of operations. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could affect the Company's business or the businesses of the Company's tenants. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and the Company may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could be a factor resulting in, or a continuation of, an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's operating results and revenues and may result in volatility of the market price for the Company's common stock. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data that may include intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our tenants and business partners, including personally identifiable information of our tenants and employees, on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. The Company was a plaintiff in a legal proceeding seeking recovery of damages for the loss of the Company's investment in Carteret which was settled in October 2012. The Settlement Agreement provides for a federal tax gross-up. There can be no assurance of a favorable outcome for the Company regarding receipt of the federal tax gross-up. The Company's tax return has not been examined by the IRS and/or state tax authorities, there can be no assurance as to the amount of taxes ultimately imposed by the IRS and/or state tax authorities or payable by the Company; therefore, the Company cannot predict the final amount of any federal tax gross-up ultimately received by the Company pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. The Company was a plaintiff in a legal proceeding, commenced in 1993, seeking recovery of damages from the United States Government for the loss of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Carteret Savings Bank, F.A. (the "Supervisory Goodwill" legal proceedings). Pursuant to a Settlement Agreement between the Company, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-Receiver ("FDIC-R") and the Department of Justice ("DOJ") on behalf of the United States of America (the "United States"), (the "Settlement Agreement") as approved by the United States Court of Federal Claims (the "Court of Federal Claims"), in October 2012, the United States paid $180,650,000 directly to AmBase (the "Settlement Amount"). As part of the Settlement Agreement in the Company's Supervisory Goodwill legal proceedings, the Company is entitled to a tax gross-up in an amount to be determined if and when any federal taxes should be imposed on the Settlement Amount. See Part II – Item 8 – Notes 10 and 11 to the Company's consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Supervisory Goodwill tax gross-up matters relating to the Settlement Agreement. As the IRS and/or state tax authorities have not examined the Company's 2012 income tax returns, as filed, the Company cannot predict the amount of taxes ultimately imposed by the IRS and/or state tax authorities or payable by the Company; and therefore, the Company cannot predict the final amount of any federal tax gross-up ultimately received by the Company pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 