ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to various risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. As a result of these and other factors, the Company may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. An investment in the Company's stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"), and those that are detailed from time to time in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, before you decide whether to purchase the Company's common stock. The Company is a plaintiff in a legal proceedings seeking recovery of damages for the loss of the Company's investment in Carteret. There can be no assurances of a favorable outcome for the Company in this legal proceeding. The Company is a plaintiff in a legal proceedings seeking recovery of damages from the United States Government for the loss of the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Carteret Savings Bank, F.A. This legal proceeding was commenced in 1993 and will likely continue for several more years. There have been and may continue to be rulings in other "supervisory goodwill" cases which have had and/or may have adverse affects on the Company's Supervisory Goodwill proceeding. In addition, due to the extended length of time that proceedings, rulings, trial decisions and possible appeals in this matter may take, it is not possible for the Company to predict when this matter will be resolved or the likelihood of a favorable outcome. The Company is subject to risks inherent in owning and leasing real estate. The Company is subject to varying degrees of risk generally related to leasing and owning real estate many of which are beyond the Company's control. In addition to general risks related to owning commercial real estate, the Company's risks include, among others: o deterioration in regional and local economic and real estate market conditions, o potential changes in supply of, or demand for rental properties similar to the Company's, o competition for tenants and changes in rental rates, o concentration in a single real estate asset and class, o difficulty in reletting properties on favorable terms or at all, o impairments in the Company's ability to collect rent payments when due, o the potential for uninsured casualty and other losses, o the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, o adverse changes in zoning laws and other regulations, o changes in federal or state tax laws, and o acts of terrorism and war. Each of these factors could cause a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which means that the Company's ability to promptly sell the Company's property in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be limited. Property taxes on the Company's property may increase without notice. The property the Company owns is subject to real property taxes. The real property taxes on the Company's property and any other properties that the Company acquires in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. To the extent that the Company's available rental space remains unoccupied or future tenants are unable or unwilling to pay such increase in accordance with their leases, the Company's net operating expenses may increase. The Company's business is concentrated in Southern Connecticut, and adverse conditions in the region could negatively impact the Company's operations. The Company's current operations are concentrated in Southern Connecticut, specifically in the Greenwich area. As a result, the value of the Company's real estate is dependent on the economic strength of that region. Because of the Company's geographic concentration and its single property, the Company's operations are more vulnerable to adverse changes in the Greenwich economy than those of larger, more diversified companies. Should the Company experience softening in the Company's market and not be able to offset the potential negative market influences on price and volume, the Company's financial results could be negatively impacted. The Company is in a competitive business. The real estate industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for tenants for its unoccupied rental space with a large number of real estate property owners and other companies that sublet properties. The Company's principal means of competition are rents charged in relation to the income producing potential of the location. In addition, the Company expects other major real estate investors, some with much greater resources than the Company has, may compete with us for attractive acquisition opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. This competition has increased prices for commercial properties and may impair the Company's ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. The Company's future cash flow is dependent on renewal of leases and reletting of the Company's space. The Company is subject to risks that its presently available rental space may not be successfully rented, that financial distress of the Company's tenants may lead to vacancies at the Company's property, that leases may not be renewed, that locations may not be relet or that the terms of renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations) may be less favorable than current lease terms. In addition, numerous properties compete with the Company's property in attracting tenants to lease space. The number of competitive properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to lease the Company's property or newly acquired properties and on the rents charged. If the Company were unable to promptly relet or renew the leases for all or a substantial portion of this location, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting were significantly lower than expected, the Company's cash flow could be adversely affected and the resale value of the Company's property could decline. The Company may not be able to insure certain risks economically. The Company may experience economic harm if any damage to the Company's property is not covered by insurance. The Company cannot be certain that the Company will be able to insure all risks that the Company desires to insure economically or that all of the Company's insurers will be financially viable if the Company make a claim. The Company may suffer losses that are not covered under the Company's insurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, the Company could lose capital invested in a property, as the well as any future revenue from the property. Changes in the composition of the Company's assets and liabilities through acquisitions, divestitures or corporate restructuring may affect the Company's results. The Company may make future acquisitions or divestitures of assets or changes in how such assets are held. Any change in the composition of the Company's assets and liabilities or how such assets and liabilities are held could significantly affect the Company's financial position and the risks that the Company faces. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize the Company's deferred tax asset. The Company has federal income tax net operating tax loss ("NOL") carryforwards and other tax attributes. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient taxable income, the Company may not be able to fully realize the benefit of the NOL carryforwards. Because the Company from time to time maintains a majority of its assets in securities, the Company may in the futurebe deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 resulting in additional costs and regulatory burdens. Currently, the Company believes that either it is not within the definition of "Investment Company" as the term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act") or, alternatively may rely on one or more of the 1940 Act's exemptions. The Company intends to continue to conduct its operations in a manner that will exempt the Company from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. If the Company were to become deemed to be an investment company because of the Company's investments securities holdings, the Company would be required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act places significant restrictions on the capital structure and corporate governance of a registered investment company, and materially restricts its ability to conduct transactions with affiliates. Compliance with the 1940 Act could also increase the Company's operating costs. Such changes could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market on which the Company's common stock trades,the markets in which the Company operate, the Company's operations and the Company's results of operations. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could affect the Company's business or the businesses of the Company's tenants. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and the Company may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could be a factor resulting in, or a continuation of, an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's operating results and revenues and may result in volatility of the market price for the Company's common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 