Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our business faces a variety of risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this 2013 Form 10-K.Our business is affected by the health of the markets we serve.Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets that we serve, particularly the general industrial and trucking markets. Demand in these markets fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in fuel costs, although the replacement nature of our products helps mitigate the effects of these changes. In addition, a general economic downturn may have an adverse effect on sales of more expensive filtration systems and products, such as capital equipment sold by our PECOFacet division (which may be affected by a decrease in the cost of oil and natural gas), United Air Specialists and our Facet companies. An economic downturn in the markets we serve may result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which could materially reduce future earnings and cash flow.Adverse U.S. and global economic conditions could materially and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations.U.S. and global economic conditions remain uncertain. Because our business depends on the strength of economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America, but increasingly in Europe and China, any deterioration in these economies could adversely impact our earnings. 7Table of ContentsAlthough improved from 2008 levels, the U.S. economy continues to show only moderate growth, and the U.S. faces near term challenges such as excessive federal and state government debt and regulatory uncertainty. In Europe, the economies of various member-states in the European Union have experienced significant contraction, while unemployment rates, investment, access to capital and other traditional signals of economic health in many European countries are discouraging. European authorities have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation in the future, but there is no guarantee that any of these measures will have their desired effect in the foreseeable future, or at all. While our current China sales are significantly less than either our U.S. or European sales, we anticipate China becoming more economically and strategically important to our business over time. If China experiences slowed or even negative economic growth, this would adversely impact our business there, as most of the sales we make in China are for domestic Chinese consumption and not for export. In addition, if adverse economic conditions in China were to cause a reduction of the level of infrastructure projects and lower diesel engine manufacturing volume in the country, this would likely have a negative effect on our Engine/Mobile Filtration segment sales there. This is because most of our current Engine/Mobile Filtration Sales in China are to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that make large diesel engines for heavy duty equipment which is used in such infrastructure projects.We face a customer concentration issue in China in our Engine/Mobile Filtration segment.Unlike in the U.S., where the majority of our Engine/Mobile Filtration segment sales are to a variety of customers in the aftermarket, sales by this segment in China are predominantly to a relatively small number of OEMs. One of these OEM customers, Weichai Power Co. Ltd ("Weichai"), accounted for approximately 33% of our Engine/Mobile segment sales in China during fiscal year 2013. Our growth in China, a strategically important and potentially high growth market, currently depends in part on our ability to maintain a good and growing commercial relationship with Weichai and the other OEMs. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, this would have a material adverse effect on our potential future results of operations, and could significantly diminish the opportunities and growth in China for our Engine/Mobile Filtration segment.We face heightened legal challenges from our competitors with respect to intellectual property, particularly in the area of patents. We face increasing exposure to claims by others for infringement of intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to patents, which claims could result in significant costs or losses. This is especially important with respect to our Engine/Mobile Filtration segment, where many of our competitors are suppliers of ‘‘first-fit’’ products to OEMs and seek to control or at least gain an advantage in the aftermarket through aggressive and comprehensive patent strategies, sometimes in conjunction with the OEMs. These strategies may involve attempting to obtain as many patents as possible, including particularly with respect to the systems for attaching or sealing filters to their respective housings, deliberately delaying the final issuance of patents so as to be able to modify them in response to competitive product designs, and seeking multiple ‘‘continuations’’ of their patents in an attempt to have their patents more clearly apply to competitive product designs.This increased exposure to patent claims is also becoming more relevant to our Industrial/Environmental Filtration segment, where we face sophisticated competitors that are larger and better financed than we are and that have complex patent portfolios that present potential obstacles to our growth.While we spend (and intend to continue to spend) significant resources to combat these risks, including by understanding the patent landscape applicable to our operating companies, creating alternative products and product designs that fall outside of our competitors’ claimed patent rights, challenging patents which we believe to be invalid and attempting to build our own patent portfolio, there can be no guaranty that we will be successful. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or prospects of the Company.We face heightened legal challenges with respect to protecting our own intellectual property, particularly overseas.We have developed and actively pursue developing proprietary technology in the industries in which we operate, and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents to protect such technology. In doing so, we incur ongoing costs to enforce and defend our intellectual property. Despite our efforts in this regard, we may face situations where our own intellectual property rights are ignored, invalidated or circumvented, to our material detriment. This is of particular concern in China, where we anticipate the market for our products to develop substantially, and, with it, the incentive of third parties to infringe or challenge our intellectual property rights. 8Table of ContentsWe could be adversely impacted by environmental matters and climate change and energy legislation and regulation.Our operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations governing emissions to air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Currently, we believe that any potential environmental liabilities with respect to our former or existing operations are not material, but there is no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by such liabilities, costs or claims in the future, either under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future.Foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions and energy policies. Due to the uncertainty in the regulatory and legislative processes, as well as the scope of such requirements and initiatives, we cannot currently determine the effect such legislation and regulation may have on our operations.The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are also highly uncertain and would vary depending on type of physical impact and geographic location. Climate change physical impacts could include changing temperatures, water shortages, changes in weather and rainfall patterns, and changing storm patterns and intensities. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, whether due to climate change or naturally occurring, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers or customers are located could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in:•physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities;•temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of raw materials from our suppliers;•disruption in the transport of our products to customers and end users; and/or•delay in the delivery of our products to our customers.Our operations outside of the United States are subject to political, investment and local business risks.Approximately 31% of our fiscal 2013 sales resulted from exports to countries outside of the United States and from sales of our foreign business units. As part of our business strategy, we expect to expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions. Sales and operations outside of the United States, particularly in emerging markets, are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks the Company faces within the United States. Among others, these risks include:•local economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyper-inflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries;•imposition of limitations on the remittance of dividends and payments by foreign subsidiaries;•adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations, including significant devaluations of currencies;•tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for the Company;•difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;•domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers;•increased costs for transportation and shipping;•difficulties in protecting intellectual property;•increased risk of corruption, self-dealing or other unethical practices that may be difficult to detect or remedy;•risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments;•managing and obtaining support and distribution channels for overseas operations;•hiring and retaining qualified management personnel for our overseas operations;•imposition or increase of restrictions on investment; and•required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the United States.The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our financial condition and results of operations. 9Table of ContentsWe face significant competition in the markets we serve.The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions or operating units of companies, that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Increasing costs for manufactured components, raw materials, transportation, energy and health care prices may adversely affect our profitability.We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including steel, steel-related components, filtration media, adhesives, plastics, paper and packaging materials. Components and materials comprise the largest component of our costs. Increases in the price of these items could further materially increase our operating costs and significantly adversely affect our profit margins. Similarly, transportation, energy and health care costs have risen steadily over the past few years and represent an increasingly important burden for the Company. Although we try to contain these costs wherever possible, and although we have historically been able to pass most increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind our incurrence of higher costs.Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers.We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Although the majority of these materials and components can be obtained from multiple sources, and while we historically have not suffered any significant limitations on our ability to procure them, any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may affect our capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our success depends in part on our development of new and improved products, and we may fail to meet the needs of customers on a timely or cost-effective basis.Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain technological capabilities, machinery and knowledge necessary to adapt to changing market demands as well as to develop and commercialize innovative products, such as innovative filtration media and higher efficiency filtration systems. We may not be able to develop new products as successfully as in the past or be able to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors and the industry generally. In addition, we may develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers’ demands for new innovations and technologies. If such demand does not materialize, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in such programs. If we are unable to recover these costs or if any such programs do not progress as expected, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.The introduction of new and improved products and services could reduce our future sales.Substantial changes or technological developments in the industries in which our products are used could reduce sales if these changes negatively impact the need for our products. For example, improvements in engine technology may reduce the need to make periodic filter changes and thus negatively impact our aftermarket filter sales for such engines.Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel.Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate what we consider to be a very lean company with respect to personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization (discussed further below) also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly management, research and development engineers and technical sales professionals. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. 10Table of ContentsOur acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful.As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. We may be unable, however, to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions, including our acquisitions of the Bekaert Business and CLARCOR Industrial Air, involve a number of special risks and factors, such as:•the focus of management’s attention to the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations;•the incorporation of acquired products into our product line;•the increasing demands on our operational and information technology systems;•potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired company that could impact us on a consolidated basis;•the failure to realize expected synergies;•the potential loss of customers and other material business relations as a result of changes in control;•the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated legal liabilities; and•the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses.Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of these business assets and their operations, we may not be able to fully ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. This is particularly true with respect to non-U.S. acquisitions.We compete for potential acquisitions based on a number of factors, including price, terms and conditions, size and ability to offer cash, stock or other forms of consideration. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete against other strategic and financial buyers, some of which are larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require members of management to divert their time and resources away from our operations.We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks.The Company is relatively decentralized in comparison with its peers. While we believe this practice has catalyzed our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers’ needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized environment. In addition, it means that we may be slower to detect compliance related problems (e.g., a rogue employee undertaking activities that are prohibited by applicable law or by our internal policies) and that “company-wide” business initiatives, such as the integration of disparate information technology systems, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the problem or initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.The Company relies on information technology systems to manage and operate its business. If these systems are damaged, intruded upon, shutdown or cease to function properly (whether by planned upgrades, force majeure, telecommunications failures, hardware or software break-ins or viruses, other cyber-security incidents or otherwise) and the Company suffers any resulting interruption in its ability to manage and operate its business, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We may be subject to product liability risks.The Company’s businesses expose it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors that the Company uses or resells. Significant product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Although the Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the 11Table of ContentsCompany will be able to maintain its insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance will provide adequate protection against all potential liabilities.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.