Risk Factors. Our business faces a variety of risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this 2008 Form 10-K. Our business is affected by the health of the markets we serve. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets that we serve, particularly the general industrial and trucking markets. Demand in these markets fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in fuel costs, although the replacement nature of our products helps mitigate the effects of these changes. In addition, a continued general economic downturn may have an adverse effect on sales of more expensive filtration systems and products, such as capital equipment sold by Peco (which may be affected by a decrease in the cost of oil and natural gas), United Air Specialists and our Facet companies. A continued economic downturn in the markets we serve may result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which could reduce future earnings and cash flow. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions may significantly and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and in foreign markets in which we operate could substantially affect our sales and profitability. Economic activity in the United States and throughout much of the world has undergone a sudden, sharp economic downturn following the recent housing downturn and subprime lending collapse. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Some of our suppliers and customers are facing credit issues and could experience cash flow problems and other financial hardships. Consumer confidence and spending are down significantly. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Nonetheless, continuation or further worsening of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. Our access to borrowing capacity could be affected by the turmoil and uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. In addition, several large financial institutions have either recently failed or been dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate as a going concern. Although we believe that the banks under our credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in the lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under our credit facility were reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying certain of our existing development projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital, it is likely that any such alternatives in the current market would be on terms less favorable than under our existing credit facility terms, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 7 Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Although the majority of these materials and components can be obtained from multiple sources, and while we historically have not suffered any significant limitations on our ability to procure them, any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may affect our capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations governing emissions to air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Currently, we believe that environmental costs with respect to our former or existing operations are not material, but there is no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by such costs, liabilities or claims in the future, either under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to political, investment and local business risks. Approximately 32% of our sales result from exports to countries outside of the United States and from sales of our foreign business units. As part of our business strategy, we expect to expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions. Sales and operations outside of the United States, particularly in emerging markets, are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks the Company faces within the United States. Among others, these risks include: • local political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries; • imposition of limitations on the remittance of dividends and payments by foreign subsidiaries; • adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations, including significant devaluations of currencies; • tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for the Company; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers; • increased costs for transportation and shipping; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • increased risk of corruption, self-dealing or other unethical practices that may be difficult to detect or remedy; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • managing and obtaining support and distribution channels for overseas operations; • hiring and retaining qualified management personnel for our overseas operations; • imposition or increase of restrictions on investment; and • required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the United States. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 We face significant competition in the markets we serve. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions or operating units of companies, that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing costs for manufactured components, raw materials, transportation, health care and energy prices may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including raw steel, steel-related components, filtration media, resins, plastics, paper and packaging materials. Materials comprise the largest component of our costs, representing over 40% of the costs of our net sales in fiscal year 2008. Increases in the price of these items could further materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Similarly, transportation, energy and health care costs have risen steadily over the past few years and represent an increasingly important burden for the Company. Although we try to contain these costs wherever possible, and although we try to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind our incurrence of higher costs. We face heightened legal challenges with respect to intellectual property. We have developed and actively pursue developing proprietary technology in the industries in which we operate, and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents to protect such technology. In doing so, we incur ongoing costs to enforce and defend our intellectual property. Despite our efforts in this regard, we may face situations where our own intellectual property rights are invalidated or circumvented, to our material detriment. We also face increasing exposure to claims by others for infringement of intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to our aftermarket products. These claims could result in significant costs or losses. Our success depends in part on our development of improved products, and we may fail to meet the needs of customers on a timely or cost-effective basis. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain technological capabilities, machinery and knowledge necessary to adapt to changing market demands as well as to develop and commercialize innovative products, such as innovative filtration media and higher efficiency filtration systems. We may not be able to develop new products as successfully as in the past or be able to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors and the industry generally. In addition, we may develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers’ demands for new innovations and technologies. If such demand does not materialize, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in such programs. If we are unable to recover these costs or if any such programs do not progress as expected, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The introduction of new and improved products and services could reduce our future sales. Substantial changes or technological developments in the industries in which our products are used could reduce sales if these changes negatively impact the need for our products. For example, improvements in engine technology may reduce the need to make periodic filter changes and thus negatively impact our aftermarket filter sales for such engines. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate what we consider to be a very lean company with respect to personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization (discussed further below) also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will 9 depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly management, research and development engineers and technical sales professionals. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and factors, including: • the focus of management’s attention to the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations; • the incorporation of acquired products into our product line; • the increasing demands on our operational and information technology systems; • potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired company that could impact us on a consolidated basis; • the failure to realize expected synergies; • the potential loss of customers as a result of changes in control; • the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and • the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of these business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. This is particularly true with respect to non-U.S. acquisitions. We compete for potential acquisitions based on a number of factors, including price, terms and conditions, size and ability to offer cash, stock or other forms of consideration. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete against other strategic and financial buyers, some of which are larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require members of management to divert their time and resources away from our operations. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. The Company is relatively decentralized in comparison with its peers. While we believe this practice has catalyzed our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers’ needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized environment. In addition, it means that “company-wide” business initiatives, such as the integration of disparate information technology systems, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 10 