ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT RISKS THAT MIGHT CAUSE THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS TO VARY MATERIALLY FROM ITS FORECASTS, TARGETS OR PROJECTIONS, INCLUDING: o achieving planned revenue and profit growth in each of the Company's business segments; o changes in customer requirements and in the volume of sales to principal customers; o the timing of orders and shipments; o emergence of new competitors or consolidation of existing competitors; and o industry demand fluctuations. The Company's expectations for both short- and long-term future net revenues are based on the Company's estimates of future demand. Orders from the Company's principal customers are ultimately based on demand from end-users and end-user demand can be difficult to predict. Low end-user demand would negatively affect orders the Company receives from distributors and other principal customers which could, in turn adversely affect the Company's revenues in any fiscal period. If the Company's estimates of sales are not accurate and the Company experiences unforeseen variability in its revenues and operating results, the Company may be unable to adjust its expense levels accordingly and its profit margins could be adversely affected. A number of the Company's products are sold through distributors and large retailers. No assurances can be given that any or all of such distributors or retailers will continue their relationships with the Company. Distributors and other significant retail customers cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and the Company's inability to reduce expenses to compensate for the loss of revenues could adversely affect the Company's net revenues and profit margins. ADVERSE CONDITIONS IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND DISRUPTION OF FINANCIAL MARKETS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced significant disruption in recent months, including, among other things, reduced consumer spending, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates significant volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and declines in asset valuation. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets in major economies. THE CURRENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The current global economic crisis could adversely affect our customers and our suppliers and businesses such as ours. In addition, they could have a variety of negative effects on the Company such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and/or write-offs of accounts receivable and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. LOSS OF A MAJOR CUSTOMER COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SALES AND EARNINGS. In 2008 the Company had three customers that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales and two customers in 2007 and 2006 that individually exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. Net sales to these customers amounted to approximately 19%, 15% and 10% in 2008, 17% and 10% in 2007 and 19% and 10%, in 2006. The Company anticipates that a limited number of customers may account for a substantial portion of its total net revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of a major customer or a disruption in sales to such a customer could result in a decrease of the Company's future sales and earnings. (6) RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. The Company purchases the majority of its products from foreign manufacturing partners and, as a result, its business is exposed to risks due to: o Increases in transportation costs; o New or increased import duties; o Transportation delays; o Work stoppages; o Capacity constraints; o Poor quality; and o Inflation and exchange rate fluctuations that could increase the cost of foreign manufactured goods. THE LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO RUN ITS BUSINESS. The Company's success depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of its executive management team, operating officers and other key personnel. The Company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. The company's inability to meet its staffing requirements in the future could adversely affect its results of operations. FAILURE TO PROTECT THE COMPANY'S PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OR THE COSTS OF PROTECTING THESE RIGHTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS BUSINESS. The Company's success depends in part on its ability to obtain patents and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering its products and processes. The Company obtained certain domestic and foreign patents, and intends to continue to seek patents on its inventions when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that pending patents related to any of the Company's products will be issued, in which case the Company may not be able to legally prevent others from producing similar and/or compatible competing products. If other companies were to sell similar and/or compatible products, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company's efforts to protect its intellectual property will be successful. Any infringement of the Company's intellectual property or legal defense of such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company. THE COMPANY MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND ITS OPERATIONS. The Company's management believes that, under current conditions, the Company's current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated by operations, together with the borrowing availability under its revolving loan agreement with Wachovia Bank, will be sufficient to fund planned operations for the next twelve months. However, if the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, it may be required to find additional funding sources. If adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to maintain, develop or enhance its operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OR TO RAISE PRICES IN RESPONSE TO INFLATION AND INCREASING COSTS. Future market and competitive pressures may prohibit the Company from raising prices to offset increased product costs, freight costs and other inflationary items. The inability to pass these costs through to the Company's customers could have a negative effect on its results of operations. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO INTENSE COMPETITION IN ALL OF THE MARKETS IN WHICH IT COMPETES. The Company's products are sold in highly competitive markets. The Company believes that the principal points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive conditions may require the Company to match or better competitors' prices to retain business or market shares. The Company believes that its competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. The Company's success will depend in part on its ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various market categories in which it competes. The Company may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate those changing needs and the Company may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining its competitive position. There are no significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of the Company's products. (7) PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS OR REGULATORY ACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL RESULTS AND REPUTATION. Claims for losses or injuries allegedly caused by some of the Company's products arise in the ordinary course of its business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company's reputation in the marketplace or the value of its brands. The Company also could be required to recall possible defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SEASONALITY WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS CASH FLOW, FINANCIAL CONDITION, OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Company's business, historically, has experienced higher sales volume in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, when compared to the first and fourth quarters. The Company is a major supplier of products related to the "back-to-school" season, which occurs principally during the months of May, June, July and August. If this typical seasonal increase in sales of certain portions of the Company's product line does not materialize, the Company could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, THE COMPANY MUST DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE A CONTINUING STREAM OF INNOVATIVE NEW PRODUCTS THAT CREATE CONSUMER DEMAND. The Company's long-term success in the current competitive environment depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create and maintain consumer demand. The Company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the Company's products. The Company's strategy includes increased investment in new product development and increased focus on innovation. There are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not provide expected growth results. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS. The Company is subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present and past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. Capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources on a wide range of properties. For example, contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by the Company, as well as at properties it will own and operate, and properties to which hazardous substances were sent by the Company, may result in liability for the Company under environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Please refer to Note 17 - Sale of Property for further discussion on the environmental costs related to the sale of property. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable to Smaller Reporting Companies. (8) 