Risk Factors–If the share exchange with Henkel is treated as a taxable transaction, and the Company is required to indemnify Henkel for certain tax liabilities pursuant to the tax matters agreement, it could materially affect the Company’s liquidity.” Even if the share exchange is tax-free to Henkel under Section 355 of the Code, it could be taxable to the Company if Section 355(e) of the Code applies to the share exchange. Section 355(e) of the Code will apply if 50% or more of the Company’s stock or its former subsidiary’s stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the share exchange. The Company cannot be certain that Section 355(e) of the Code will not apply to the share exchange. Risk of the applicability of Section 355(e) of the Code may also discourage, delay or prevent a merger, change of control, or other strategic or capital raising transaction involving the Company’s outstanding equity or issuance of new equity. If the share exchange with Henkel is treated as a taxable transaction, and the Company is required to indemnify Henkel for certain tax liabilities pursuant to the tax matters agreement, it could materially affect the Company’s liquidity. In general, pursuant to the tax matters agreement that the Company entered into with Henkel in connection with the share exchange, the Company agreed to be responsible for any taxes, including the taxes of Henkel, that result from certain of the Company’s actions or that result from the Company’s breach of a representation or a covenant that it has given in connection with the tax opinion delivered to the Company by its special tax counsel and the tax opinion delivered to Henkel by its special tax counsel, described above, in a manner that causes the share exchange to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code or from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Henkel has agreed to similar obligations in the tax matters agreement. The Company’s indemnification obligations to Henkel are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If the Company is required to indemnify Henkel under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, it may be subject to substantial liabilities that may materially affect its liquidity and, therefore, its ability to service the senior notes it issued in connection with the share exchange. Resolutions of tax disputes may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Company establishes accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that its tax return positions are fully supported, it believes that certain positions will be challenged and that its positions may not be fully sustained. The tax-contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law development and emerging legislation. The Company’s effective tax rate includes the 11 Table of Contents impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. When particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. The IRS has completed audits of the Company’s income tax returns through the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. In April 2005, the Company announced an agreement with the IRS resolving certain tax issues arising in the period from 1997 through 2000. As a result, the Company paid federal and state taxes and interest of $94 million and $151 million during fiscal years 2005 and 2006, respectively. These payments negatively impacted the Company’s cash flows. The Company had previously accrued for this contingency and released tax-contingency accruals associated with this settlement in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005. Additional tax matters through fiscal year 2002 are now being reviewed at the IRS Appeals level. Resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material impact on earnings or cash flow. For additional information, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Contingencies” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” beginning on page 12 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference. Identification of good acquisition candidates or joint-venture partners may be difficult and integration and management of acquisitions may not be successful. One of the elements of the Company’s growth plan is to look at the possibility of increasing its sales, volumes, earnings and the markets it serves through acquisitions of, or joint ventures with, other businesses in the United States and international markets. Not only is the identification of good acquisition or joint-venture candidates difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the acquired companies, products or personnel into the Company’s existing business; • difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company; and • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies. In addition, companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating results. Government regulations could impose material costs. Generally, the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the United States, many of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Company’s product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. Most states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these federal agencies. In addition, the Company’s international operations are subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which it manufactures or distributes its products. During the past two years, the Company experienced an increase in the number of regulatory inspections at its facilities in the U.S. If the Company is found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, 12 Table of Contents building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results, particularly with respect to its charcoal business. It is possible that the federal government will increase regulation of the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and that such regulation could negatively impact supplies of raw material or costs. Product liability claims could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy. Environmental matters create potential liability risks. The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its currently and formerly owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have been or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to which the Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the subject of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. At June 30, 2006, the Company had a recorded liability of $27 million for its future remediation costs. One matter in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounts for a substantial majority of the recorded liability. The Company is subject to a cost-sharing arrangement with another party for this matter, and the Company has agreed to be liable for 24.3% of the aggregate remediation and associated costs, other than legal fees, as it and the other party are each responsible for their own such fees. If the other party with whom the Company shares joint and several liability is unable to pay its share of the response and remediation obligations, the Company would likely be responsible for such obligations. In October 2004, the Company and the other party agreed to a consent judgment with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, which sets forth certain remediation goals and monitoring activities. Based on the current status of this matter, and with the assistance of environmental consultants, the Company maintains an undiscounted liability representing its best estimate of its share of costs associated with the capital expenditures, maintenance and other costs to be incurred over an estimated 30-year remediation period. The most significant components of the liability relate to the estimated costs associated with the remediation of groundwater contamination and excess levels of subterranean methane deposits. Currently, the Company cannot accurately predict the timing of the payments that will likely be made under this estimated obligation. In addition, the estimated loss exposure is sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of remediation efforts, changes in remediation requirements and the timing, varying costs and alternative clean-up technologies that may become available in the future. Although it is possible that the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount recorded, any amount of such additional exposures, or range of exposures, is not estimable at this time. The Company also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at its plant sites, including the rail transit of liquid chlorine from its point of origin to our manufacturing facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in transit or at our facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could result in substantial liability. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations. 13 Table of Contents Failure to maximize or to successfully assert the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness. The Company relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend its intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of its brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure to perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others it could impact its competitiveness. It is possible that the Company will be found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future if the rights holder is willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2006, the Company had $2.0 billion of long-term debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations; • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company. To service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends, the Company will require a significant amount of cash. The Company’s ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. In addition, to pay cash dividends, the Company must have net profits as defined by Delaware law. The Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends will depend on its ability to generate cash and net profits. The ability to 14 Table of Contents generate cash and net profits, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of June 30, 2006, approximately $1.3 billion was available to borrow under the Company’s $1.3 billion revolving credit facility. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Much of the Company’s future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of the executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company announced that Gerald E. Johnston, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was retiring from his positions and that the Board of Directors, with the assistance of an executive search firm, would conduct an internal and external search for a new Chief Executive Officer. Experienced personnel, including executives, in the Company’s industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the Company’s corporate headquarters and many of its employees are located. Although the Company strives to be an employer of choice, it may not be able to successfully attract and retain key personnel, which would cause its business to suffer. The Company’s manufacturing and other facilities may be subject to disruption from work stoppages, terrorism or natural disasters. Operations at the Company’s manufacturing facilities may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and technical center are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers, suspension of operations, or harm to people or the natural environment. The Company may be liable for unauthorized disclosure of data. In connection with some of the Company’s customer loyalty programs and promotional programs, it gathers and stores limited personal data regarding the consumers of its products. These programs typically provide that the Company enter into contracts, which specify limits on use of this data. If any person, including any of the Company’s employees or partners, circumvents the Company’s security measures, they could misappropriate this data. If this occurs, the Company could be subject to liability as a result of the security breach or misappropriation of its registered consumers’ personal data. Failure to meet market expectations could impact the Company’s stock price. The market price for the Company’s stock is based, in part, on market expectations for the Company’s sales growth, earning per share and cash flow. Failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline, potentially rapidly and sharply. The Company’s continued growth and expansion could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm its business and financial results. The management of Clorox is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions, providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management’s authorization, and providing reasonable assurance that the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial 15 Table of Contents statements would be prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 