RISK FACTORS The Company faces intense competition in its markets. The Company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic” non-branded products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives, which typically are sold at lower prices. The Company also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national concerns. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of price, quality or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company, and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive pricing may require the Company to reduce prices and could lead to a reduction in its sales or its profit margins. Volume growth may be difficult to achieve. A large percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to increased competition. During fiscal year 2005, approximately 84% of the Company’s net sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for household products are considered mature and are generally characterized by high household penetration. The Company’s ability to achieve volume growth will depend on its ability to drive growth through innovation and investment in its established brands and its ability to capture market share from competitors. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, or bring innovation to grow the categories, or develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its growth objectives. The Company’s financial performance depends on continuous and successful new product introductions. In most categories in which the Company competes, there are frequent introductions of new products and line extensions. An important factor in the Company’s future performance will be its ability to identify emerging consumer and technological trends and to maintain and improve the competitiveness of its products. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The development 5 and introduction of new products requires substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. Continued product development and marketing efforts have inherent risks, including product development or launch delays, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the cost of failed product introductions. Operating results and net earnings may not meet expectations. The Company cannot be certain that its operating results and net earnings will meet its expectations. If the Company’s assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition, or if the Company does not achieve all of its key goals, then its actual performance could vary materially from its expectations. The Company’s operating results and net earnings may be influenced by a number of factors, including the following: · the introduction of new products and line extensions by the Company or its competitors; · the mix of products with varying profitability sold in a given quarter; · the Company’s ability to control internal costs; · the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs; · changes in product pricing policies by the Company or its competitors; · the ability of the Company to maintain and enhance profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment; · the ability of the Company to successfully implement and achieve the expected benefits of its process improvement initiatives; · the ability of the Company to achieve its business plans, including volume growth and pricing plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity; · the ability to maintain key retail customer relationships; · the potential inability to generate expected cost savings and efficiencies from the Company’s enterprise resource planning and customer relationship data processing systems; · the potential inability to generate expected cost savings and efficiencies from restructuring the Company’s supply chain; · the ability of major customers and other debtors to meet their obligations as they come due; · the failure of parties contracting with the Company to perform their obligations, and the loss of or inability to renew contracts of importance to the Company’s performance; · the ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including resolution of pending matters within current estimates; · changes to cash flow resulting from tax payments, tax settlements and share repurchases; · the ability of the Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions regarding obsolescence; · expenses for impairment and obsolescence of property, plant and equipment in excess of projections; · expenses for impairment of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and equity investments in excess of projections; 6 · charges resulting from any restructuring that management may, from time to time, choose to undertake; · the ability of the Company to make up for lost revenues resulting from divestitures; · the purchase by P&G on January 5, 2005, of an additional 10% interest in the profits, losses and cash flows of the Glad bags, wraps and containers business, with the resultant increase in the Company’s net terminal obligation liability by $133 million, reflecting the additional fair value of the Company’s contractual requirement to purchase P&G’s interest at the termination of the joint venture agreement; · significant increases in the costs of key raw materials including but not limited to energy, resin, chlor-alkali, linerboard, soy bean oil, diesel, solvent and other miscellaneous chemicals; · changes in accounting policies; · significant increases in interest rates, insurance costs, or in pension, healthcare or other employee benefit costs; · the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; · the impact of environmental remediation costs; · the impact of currency devaluations and fluctuations; · the impact of foreign import and export restrictions or other trade regulations; and · the impact of general economic conditions in the United States and in other countries in which the Company currently does business. In addition, sales volume growth, whether due to acquisitions or to internal growth, can place burdens on management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating results and net earnings. To some extent, the Company sets its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenue falls short of these expectations, operating results and net earnings are likely to be adversely affected. The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies, accounted for approximately 27% of the Company’s net sales during fiscal year 2005 and 25% of net sales in each of fiscal years 2004 and 2003. During fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 41%, 39% and 39% of its net sales, respectively. The Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may harm the Company’s sales. In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect the Company’s margins and results of operations. In recent years, the Company has experienced a consumer trend away from traditional grocers and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s sales and profitability to decline. Operations outside the United States expose the Company to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. The Company’s sales outside the United States were approximately 16% of net sales in fiscal year 2005, and the Company owns and operates 21 manufacturing facilities outside the United States. The Company has and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: · economic or political instability in its international markets; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and · the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions. The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, profits and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, it is not fully protected against foreign currency fluctuations and its reported earnings will be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. As a result of these factors, the Company took substantial impairment charges related to its international operations in fiscal years 2003 and 2002 and, due to uncertainties and possible deterioration in the overseas markets, it may have to take additional charges in the future. In addition, these risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to sell its products on a timely and competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. The Company’s small volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks. Also, the Company’s operations outside the United States are subject to the risk of new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors, and potentially adverse tax consequences. The share exchange with Henkel could result in significant tax liability. On November 22, 2004, the Company completed the exchange of its ownership interest in a subsidiary for Henkel’s approximately 61.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock, which represented approximately 29% of the Company’s common stock prior to the exchange. At the time of the share exchange with Henkel, the Company received an opinion from its special tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, the share exchange should qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), and that the Company should recognize no gain or loss upon the distribution of its subsidiary’s stock to Henkel for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, at the time of the share exchange, Henkel received an opinion from its special tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, the share exchange of the subsidiary’s stock to Henkel should qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These opinions are based in part upon various factual representations that Henkel and the Company have made. The Company is not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause such representations to be untrue or incomplete 8 in any material respect. Nonetheless, the Company cannot be certain that the share exchange will qualify for tax-free treatment to it or to Henkel. The Company has not applied for an advance tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) with respect to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the share exchange. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS, and the conclusions expressed in the opinions could be challenged by the IRS. If the share exchange does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code, then, in general, the Company would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of its subsidiary in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Henkel would be subject to tax as if it had sold the Clorox stock that it exchanged in a taxable sale for the value of the stock of the subsidiary it acquired in the exchange. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Henkel and to the Company would be substantial. Although certain of the taxes described above would be imposed on Henkel, the Company would, in certain circumstances, be liable for all or a portion of such taxes. See “—If the share exchange with Henkel is treated as a taxable transaction, and the Company is required to indemnify Henkel for certain tax liabilities pursuant to the tax matters agreement, it could materially affect the Company’s liquidity.” Even if the share exchange is tax-free to Henkel under Section 355 of the Code, it could be taxable to the Company if Section 355(e) of the Code applies to the share exchange. Section 355(e) of the Code will apply if 50% or more of the Company’s stock or its former subsidiary’s stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the share exchange. The Company cannot be certain that Section 355(e) of the Code will not apply to the share exchange. Risk of the applicability of Section 355(e) of the Code may also discourage, delay or prevent a merger, change of control, or other strategic or capital raising transaction involving the Company’s outstanding equity or issuance of new equity. If the share exchange with Henkel is treated as a taxable transaction, and the Company is required to indemnify Henkel for certain tax liabilities pursuant to the tax matters agreement, it could materially affect the Company’s liquidity. In general, pursuant to the tax matters agreement that the Company entered into with Henkel in connection with the share exchange, the Company agreed to be responsible for any taxes, including the taxes of Henkel, that result from certain of the Company’s actions or that result from the Company’s breach of a representation or a covenant that it has given in connection with the tax opinion delivered to the Company by its special tax counsel and the tax opinion delivered to Henkel by its special tax counsel, described above, in a manner that causes the share exchange to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code or from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Henkel has agreed to similar obligations in the tax matters agreement. The Company’s indemnification obligations to Henkel are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If the Company is required to indemnify Henkel under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, it may be subject to substantial liabilities that may materially affect its liquidity and, therefore, its ability to service the senior notes it issued in connection with the share exchange. Resolutions of tax disputes may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Company establishes accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that its tax return positions are fully supported, it believes that certain positions will be challenged and that its positions may not be fully sustained. The tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law development and emerging legislation. The Company’s effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. When particular 9 matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. The IRS completed its audit of the Company’s 1997 through 2000 tax returns, and the audit of the 2001 and 2002 tax years is now in progress. In April 2005, the Company announced an agreement with the IRS resolving certain tax issues arising in the period from 1997 through 2000 under which the Company is paying approximately $247 million in federal and state taxes and interest. The Company paid $94 million during fiscal year 2005 and paid the majority of the balance, approximately $150 million, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. These payments negatively impacted the Company’s cash flows. The Company had previously accrued for this contingency and released tax-contingency accruals associated with this settlement in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005. For additional information, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Contingencies” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” beginning on page 15 of Exhibit 99-1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference. Price increases in raw materials could harm the Company’s profit margins. The Company utilizes several key raw materials in the production of its products, including but not limited to energy, resin, chlor-alkali, linerboard, soy bean oil, diesel, solvent and other miscellaneous chemicals. In some cases, the Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for these raw materials. If price increases in any of the primary raw materials occur, the Company may not be able to increase the prices of its products or achieve cost savings to offset the increase in raw material prices, which could harm its profit margins. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 16 through 17 of Exhibit 99-1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference. Identification of good acquisition candidates or joint venture partners may be difficult and integration and management of acquisitions may not be successful. One of the elements of the Company’s growth plan is to look at the possibility of increasing its sales volumes, earnings and the markets it serves through acquisitions of, or joint ventures with, other businesses in the United States and international markets. Not only is the identification of good acquisition or joint venture candidates difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks, including the following: · difficulties in integrating the acquired companies, products or personnel into the Company’s existing business; · difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company; and · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies. In addition, there can be no assurance that companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created will be profitable at their inception or that they will achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating results. 10 Government regulations could impose material costs. Generally, the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the United States, many of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Company’s product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. Most states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these federal agencies. In addition, the Company’s international operations are subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which it manufactures or distributes its products. During the past year, the Company experienced an increase in the number of regulatory inspections at its facilities in the U.S. If the Company is found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results, particularly with respect to its charcoal business. It is possible that the federal government will increase regulation of the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and that such regulation could negatively impact raw material supply or costs. Product liability claims could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy. Environmental matters create potential liability risks. The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The Company handles and transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at its plant sites. A release of such chemicals due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities and/or to third parties. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its presently and formerly owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have been or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to which the Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the subject of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. 11 At June 30, 2005, the Company had a recorded liability of $33 million for its future remediation costs. One matter in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounts for a substantial majority of the recorded liability. The Company is subject to a cost-sharing arrangement with another party for this matter, and the Company has agreed to be liable for 24.3% of the aggregate remediation and associated costs, other than legal fees, as it and the other party are each responsible for their own such fees. In October 2004, the Company and the other party agreed to a consent judgment with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, which sets forth certain remediation goals and monitoring activities. Based on the current status of this matter, and with the assistance of environmental consultants, the Company maintains an undiscounted liability representing its best estimate of its share of costs associated with the capital expenditures, maintenance and other costs to be incurred over an estimated 30-year remediation period. The most significant components of the liability relate to the estimated costs associated with the remediation of groundwater contamination and excess levels of subterranean methane deposits. Currently, the Company cannot accurately predict the timing of the payments that will likely be made under this estimated obligation. In addition, the estimated loss exposure is sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of remediation efforts, changes in remediation requirements and the timing, varying costs and alternative clean-up technologies that may become available in the future. Although it is possible that the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount recorded, any amount of such additional exposures, or range of exposures, is not estimable at this time. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness. The Company relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend its intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of its brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure to perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others it could impact its competitiveness. It is possible that the Company will be found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future if the rights holder is willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property right. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. 12 The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2005, the Company had approximately $2.1 billion of long-term debt and stockholders’ deficit of approximately $513 million. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations; · increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company. To service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends, the Company will require a significant amount of cash. The Company’s ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. In addition, to pay cash dividends, the Company must have sufficient surplus or net profits as defined by Delaware law. The Company’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends will depend on its ability to generate cash and net profits. The ability to generate cash and net profits, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of June 30, 2005, approximately $1.3 billion was available to borrow under the Company’s $1.3 billion revolving credit facility. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Much of the Company’s future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of the executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the Company’s industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the Company’s corporate headquarters and many of its employees are located. Although the Company strives to be an employer of choice, it may not be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, which would cause its business to suffer. 13 The Company’s manufacturing and other facilities may be subject to disruption from natural disasters, work stoppages or terrorism. Operations at the Company’s manufacturing facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and technical center are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers, suspension of operations, or harm to people or the natural environment. The Company may be liable for unauthorized disclosure of data. In connection with some of the Company’s customer loyalty programs and promotional programs, it gathers and stores limited personal data regarding the consumers of its products. These programs typically provide that the Company enter into contracts, which specify limits on use of this data. If any person, including any of the Company’s employees or partners, circumvents the Company’s security measures, they could misappropriate this data. If this occurs, the Company could be subject to liability as a result of the security breach or misappropriation of its registered consumers’ personal data. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available on the Company’s Internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/investors/financialinfo/annreports/ in the “Investors — Financial Information — SEC Filings” section. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Ethics, Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committees, including charters for each of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at http://www.thecloroxcompany.com/company/standards.html in the “Company Information — Governance” section. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Dan Staublin, Manager of Corporate External Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway; Oakland, CA 94612-1888. 