Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liability risks” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated. Number of Persons Employed At June 30, 2009, the Company employed approximately 8,300 people. Available Information The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s Internet Web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters, including charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Company Information/Corporate Governance. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s Internet Web site is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report. ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Report or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm the Company’s business operations and financial results. the impact of general economic conditions in the United States and in other countries in which the Company currently does business; the impact of currency fluctuations; significant increases in the costs of energy and transportation, including the cost of diesel, or of key raw materials, including but not limited to resin, chlor-alkali, corrugate, agricultural commodities and other raw materials; the availability and cost of debt financing; changes to cash flow resulting from the Company’s operating results, tax settlement payments, debt repayments and share repurchases; 8 Table of Contents fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes; the ability of the Company to successfully execute its strategies, including its Centennial Strategy; expenses for impairment and obsolescence of property, plant and equipment in excess of projections; expenses for impairment of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and equity investments in excess of projections; the introduction of new products and line extensions by the Company or its competitors; the impact of potential emerging technologies on the Company’s existing product lines, including any potential future obsolescence; consumer and customer reaction to price increases; changes in product pricing by the Company or its competitors; the impact of customer inventory reductions or shelf simplification initiatives; the mix of products sold within different channels and countries with varying profitability in a given quarter; the ability of the Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions regarding obsolescence; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; charges resulting from any restructuring that management may, from time to time, choose to undertake; the impact of changing accounting principles and standards; expenses for impairment of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and equity investments in excess of projections; the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs; the Company’s ability to control internal costs and generate expected cost savings and efficiencies; the ability of the Company to achieve its business plans, including volume growth and pricing plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity; the ability of the Company to penetrate and grow international markets; the ability of the Company to maintain key retail customer relationships; the impact of potential emerging technologies on the Company’s existing product lines, including any potential future obsolescence; significant increases in interest rates, insurance costs, or in pension, healthcare or other employee benefit costs; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the impact of changes in the market value of investments, including those investments held in the Company’s pension plan, and any resulting funding requirements; the ability of the Company to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including the resolution of pending matters within current estimates; the impact of any litigation or product liability claims; the impact of environmental remediation costs, including those for which the Company is jointly and severally liable; the ability of the Company to maintain the value and reputation of its brands; the ability of the Company to maintain key retail customer relationships; the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs; the ability of the Company to maintain and enhance profits in the face of a consolidating retail environment; the ability of the Company to penetrate and grow international markets; and the impact of foreign import and export restrictions or other trade regulations. In addition, sales volume growth, whether due to acquisitions or to internal growth, can burden management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating results and net earnings. To some extent, the Company sets its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenue falls short of these expectations, operating results and net earnings are likely to be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. The Company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic” nonbranded products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions or reduce prices and could lead to reduced profits and could adversely affect growth. Unfavorable general economic conditions and financial market volatility may negatively impact the Company’s financial performance and liquidity. Although the Company continues to devote significant resources to support its brands, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect consumer demand for the Company’s products. Consumers may reduce discretionary spending due to economic uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions and this may lead to reduced sales volumes or cause a shift in the Company’s product mix from higher margin to lower margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or non-branded products and the Company’s competitors may increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales volumes during the downturn. In addition, global financial markets have experienced unprecedented disruptions during fiscal year 2009 and continuing volatility could harm the Company’s business. Although the Company currently generates significant cash flows from ongoing operations and has access to global credit markets through its financing activities and existing credit facilities, if the current credit conditions were to worsen, the Company might not be able to access credit markets on favorable terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow. Financial market volatility and unfavorable economic conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. In addition, the decline in the equity markets and the valuation of other assets precipitated by the credit crisis and financial system disruptions has affected the value of the Company’s pension plan assets. The lower pension plan asset base has negatively affected the return on plan assets, increased the Company’s pension expense and required additional pension funding. If current market conditions worsen or continue for a prolonged period of time, it could have an additional negative impact on future pension expense and cash flow. 10 Table of Contents Sales growth may be difficult to achieve. A large percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to increased competition. During fiscal year 2009, approximately 80% of the Company’s net sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for household products are considered mature and are generally characterized by high household penetration. The Company’s ability to achieve sales growth will depend on its ability to drive growth through innovation, investment in its established brands and enhanced merchandising and its ability to capture market share from competitors. In addition, price increases may slow sales growth or create declines in sales in the short term as consumers adjust to price increases. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that grow its product categories, and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its sales growth objectives. Operations outside the United States expose the Company to foreign exchange rate risk, uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and its reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. In addition to foreign exchange rate risks, the Company faces and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: economic or political instability in its international markets, particularly in Latin America; difficulty in obtaining U.S. dollars to pay for the raw materials needed to manufacture the Company’s products, particularly in Venezuela; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and the imposition of tariffs, trade restrictions or other governmental actions. These risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to sell its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. The Company’s small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks. Also, the Company’s operations outside the United States are subject to risks relating to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors, and potentially adverse tax consequences. 11 Table of Contents The Company may not successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions. The Company’s future performance and growth depends on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The development and introduction of new products requires substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product development and marketing efforts, including entering markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance, and the cost of failed product introductions. Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its domestic and international affiliated companies, accounted for approximately 27%, 26% and 26% of the Company’s net sales during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. During fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for 43%, 42% and 42%, respectively, of its total consolidated net sales. The Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest customers, including shelf simplification or a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to “private-label” or competitors’ products, may harm the Company’s sales. In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s sales and profits to decline. In recent years, the Company has seen increasing retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailers, who may demand lower pricing or special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The Company’s financial results could suffer if the Company is unable to implement its strategies or if the Company’s strategies do not achieve the intended effects. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement its strategies, including its Centennial Strategy, or will achieve its intended growth targets. If the Company is unable to implement its strategies in accordance with its expectations, the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain that implementation of its strategies will necessarily advance the Company’s business or financial results. Profitability could suffer if the Company is unable to generate anticipated savings and efficiencies, including through its supply chain restructuring and operating model changes. The Company’s success and profitability depend on efficient manufacture and production of products. Beginning in fiscal year 2008, the Company began a supply chain restructuring involving closing certain domestic and international manufacturing facilities and redistributing production between the remaining facilities and third-party producers to optimize available capacity and reduce operating costs. Gaining additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time and any failure to successfully execute such changes may result in supply chain interruption, which may negatively impact product volume and margins. In addition, one of the Company’s key strategies is to reduce waste, lower costs and increase productivity. The Company sets aggressive annual cost savings targets in support of this strategy. Failure to reduce costs through productivity gains and operating model efficiencies could adversely affect profitability. 12 Table of Contents Price increases in raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s profits. Increases in the cost of raw materials, including resin, chlor-alkali, linerboard, soybean oil, solvent, natural oils, corrugate and other chemicals and agricultural commodities, or increases in the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, including the cost of diesel, may harm the Company’s profits and operating results. If price increases for any of the primary raw materials or other necessary supplies or services occur and the Company is not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve cost savings to offset such price increases, its profits and operating results will be harmed. In addition, if the Company increases the prices of its products in response to increases in the cost of commodities, and the commodity costs decline, the Company may not be able to sustain its price increases over time. Sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume, and while the Company seeks to project tradeoffs between price increases and volume, its projections may not accurately predict the volume impact of price increases. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 16 through 17 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference. Reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruption to the Company’s business. The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers, including sole suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. If the Company is unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, or if it is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for its business, or if any of the Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, the Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results could be adversely affected. Acquisitions and new venture investments may not be successful. In connection with the Company’s Centennial Strategy, the Company may seek to increase growth through acquisitions. Not only is the identification of good acquisition candidates difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks, including the ability to: successfully integrate acquired companies, products or personnel into the Company’s existing business; achieve expected synergies and obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from acquisitions; retain key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies; and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies. Companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities, the increase in amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions of foreign companies would increase the Company’s exposure to foreign exchange risks. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record additional write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating results. In November 2007, the Company acquired Burt’s Bees Inc., a leading manufacturer and marketer of natural personal care products, for an aggregate purchase price of $913 million (excluding $25 million of associated tax benefits). There is no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve the sales and profit growth or increased distribution in the Burt’s Bees business that management has projected. 13 Table of Contents Additional government regulations could impose material costs. Generally, the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and advertising of the Company’s products and the conduct of its business operations must all comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, in the United States, many of the Company’s products are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Company’s product claims and advertising are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. In addition, security at certain of our facilities is regulated by the Department of Homeland Security. Most states have agencies that regulate in parallel to these federal agencies. In addition, the Company’s international operations are subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which it manufactures or distributes its products. If the Company is found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, it could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent the Company from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results, particularly with respect to its charcoal business. It is possible that the federal government will increase regulation of the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and that such regulation could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain raw material or increase costs. In addition, pending legislative initiatives, such as in the areas of healthcare reform, taxation of foreign profits and corporate governance and executive compensation, could also increase the Company's costs. Product liability claims could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances or damage property. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or certain product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy. Environmental matters create potential liability risks. The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its currently and formerly owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its present and former facilities have been or had been in operation for many years and, over that time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to whom the Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the subject of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. At June 30, 2009, the Company had a recorded liability of $19 million for its future remediation costs. One matter in Dickinson County, Michigan, for which the Company is jointly and severally liable, accounts for a substantial majority of the recorded liability. The Company is subject to a cost-sharing arrangement with Ford Motor Co. (Ford) for this matter, under which the Company has agreed to be liable for 24.3% of the aggregate remediation and associated costs, other than legal fees, as it and Ford are each responsible for their own such fees. If Ford is unable to pay its share of the response and remediation obligations, the Company would likely be responsible for such obligations. In October 2004, the Company and Ford agreed to a consent judgment with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, which sets forth certain remediation goals and monitoring activities. Based on the current status of this matter, and with the assistance of environmental consultants, the Company maintains an undiscounted liability representing its best estimate of its share of costs associated with the capital expenditures, maintenance and other costs to be incurred over an estimated 30-year remediation period. The most significant components of the liability relate to the estimated costs associated with the remediation of groundwater contamination and excess levels of subterranean methane deposits. Currently, the Company cannot accurately predict the timing of the payments that will likely be made under this estimated obligation. In addition, the estimated loss exposure is sensitive to a variety of uncertain factors, including the efficacy of remediation efforts, changes in remediation requirements and the timing, varying costs and alternative clean-up technologies that may become available in the future. Although it is possible that the Company’s exposure may exceed the amount recorded, any amount of such additional exposures, or range of exposures, is not estimable at this time. 14 Table of Contents The Company also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited to chlorine, at its plant sites, including the rail transit of liquid chlorine from its point of origin to the Company’s manufacturing facilities. A release of such chemicals, whether in transit or at our facilities, due to accident or an intentional act, could result in substantial liability. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and such expenditures reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other purposes. Failure to maximize, successfully assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness. The Company relies on intellectual property rights based on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its brands, its products, and the packaging for those products. The Company cannot be certain that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert its intellectual property rights, or to defend those rights from assertions of invalidity. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of the Company’s brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure to perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be negatively impacted. If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. In some instances, the Company may not be able to obtain the intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions or on-going sales. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future for rights if holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2009, the Company had $3.1 billion of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its cash obligations; increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit the Company’s ability to fund potential acquisitions; require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; 15 Table of Contents place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company. The Company may not have sufficient cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends. The Company’s ability to repay and refinance its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends on the Company’s cash flow. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on cash flow and net profits (as defined by Delaware law). The Company’s cash flow and net profits are often subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control, and such factors may limit the Company’s ability to repay indebtedness and pay cash dividends. The Company may incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. The Company may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes, subject to compliance with the Company’s existing restrictive debt covenants. As of June 30, 2009, the Company could add approximately $600 million in incremental debt and remain in compliance with restrictive debt covenants. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. In addition, the cost of incurring additional debt could increase due to possible additional downgrades in the Company’s credit rating. The facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s control. Operations at the facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, , fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and Technical Center are located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations. The Company’s continued growth and expansion and increasing reliance on third party service providers could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm its business and financial results. Clorox management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, the Company increasingly engages the services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial reporting processes, which inserts additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud. Harm to the Company’s reputation or the reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an adverse effect on the business. Maintaining a strong reputation with consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to the success of the Company’s business. The Company devotes significant time and resources to programs designed to protect and preserve the Company’s reputation and the reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance, sustainability, and product safety and quality initiatives, among others. Despite these efforts, adverse publicity about the Company, including product safety or quality or similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could harm the Company’s image and result in an adverse effect on its business, as well as require resources to rebuild its reputation. 16 Table of Contents Resolutions of tax disputes may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. On July 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an Interpretation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 109. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by FIN 48. Changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, impact the Company’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 20 - Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 53 of Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 