ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this Report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public before investing in any securities we issue. If we determine that our recorded loss reserves are insufficient to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims, we may need to increase our loss reserves. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. Reserves represent our best estimate at a given point in time. Insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by us, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, expected interest rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. Many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on our part. As trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called “long tail” or long duration coverages, we are sometimes required to add to our reserves. This is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to our earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. These charges can be substantial. Additional information on our reserves is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We are subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. These issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in our reserves which can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and equity. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. Examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: • the effects of recessionary economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of claims due to corporate failures; these claims include both directors and officers (D&O) and errors and omissions (E&O) insurance claims; • class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and • mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals, and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. In light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, we review and change our reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. If estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against our earnings for the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. These charges could be substantial. 9 Table of Contents We have exposures related to asbestos and environmental pollution (A&EP) claims, which could result in additional losses. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have exposures related to asbestos and environmental pollution (A&EP) claims. Our experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to A&EP claims are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. Additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for A&EP. As a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported A&EP claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. On August 31, 2010, we completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of our legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to National Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4 billion (Loss Portfolio Transfer). If the other parties to the Loss Portfolio Transfer do not fully perform their obligations, our liabilities for A&EP claims covered by the Loss Portfolio Transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4 billion, or we determine we have exposures to A&EP claims not covered by the Loss Portfolio Transfer, we may need to increase our recorded reserves which would result in a charge against our earnings. These charges could be substantial. Additional information on this transaction is included in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Catastrophe losses are unpredictable. Catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of our business. Various events can cause catastrophe losses. These events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, and acts of terrorism, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. In addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, and snow. The extent of our losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of our insured exposures in the affected areas and the frequency and severity of the events themselves. In addition, as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to us to be finally determined. As our claim experience develops on a particular catastrophe, we may be required to adjust our reserves, or take unfavorable development, to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. Additional information on catastrophe losses is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Our premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. We purchase reinsurance to help manage our exposure to risk. Under our reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of our claim and claim adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which affects the level of our business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk we retain. If we are unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost we deem acceptable, we may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Additional information on reinsurance is included in Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We may not be able to collect amounts owed to us by reinsurers. We have significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables in our balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. The ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge our primary liability for claims. As a result, we are subject to credit risk relating to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Certain of our reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial condition or have been downgraded by rating agencies. In addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which we believe are due to us. If we are not able to collect the amounts due to us from reinsurers, our incurred losses will be higher. Additional information on reinsurance is included in Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. 10 Table of Contents Our key assumptions used to determine reserves and deferred acquisition costs for our long term care product offerings could vary significantly from actual experience. Our reserves and deferred acquisition costs for our long term care product offerings are based on certain key assumptions including morbidity, which is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted, policy persistency, which is the percentage of policies remaining in force, interest rates and future health care cost trends. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition cost asset may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring us to add to reserves, or take unfavorable development. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from volatility in the capital and credit markets. Our investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. General economic conditions, changes in financial markets such as fluctuations in interest rates, long term periods of low interest rates, credit conditions and currency, commodity and stock prices, including the short and long-term effects of losses in relation to asset-backed securities, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our investments and the realization of investment income. Further, we invest a portion of our assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than our fixed income investments. Limited partnership investments generally present greater market volatility, higher illiquidity, and greater risk than fixed income investments. As a result of all of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, may incur losses on sales of our investments, and may be required to write down the value of our investments. Our valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment. We exercise significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, primarily provided by third parties, for securities in our investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded. We also exercise significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. Securities with exposure to residential and commercial mortgage and other loan collateral can be particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in actual collateral performance and assumptions as to future collateral performance. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of risks and the resulting judgments, we may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write downs of our investments are required. Additional information on our investment portfolio is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Notes B, C, and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We face intense competition in our industry and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business. All aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and we must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve our insurance products and services. We compete with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. During periods in which price competition is high, we may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. As a result, our premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. We are subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if we are unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit us from operating our business. Insurance companies such as us are subject to risk-based capital standards set by state regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. These standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of our statutory capital and surplus reported in our statutory basis of accounting financial statements. Current rules require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the risk-based capital formula. If we do not meet these minimum 11 Table of Contents requirements, state regulators may restrict or prohibit us from operating our business. If we are required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or circumstances or if we incur significant unrealized losses related to our investment portfolio, we may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless we are able to raise sufficient additional capital. Examples of events leading us to record a material charge against earnings include impairment of our investments or unexpectedly poor claims experience. While Loews has provided us with substantial amounts of capital in prior years, Loews may be restricted in its ability or may not be willing to provide additional capital support to us in the future. If we are in need of additional capital, we may be required to secure this funding from sources other than Loews. We may be limited in our ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. Our insurance subsidiaries, upon whom we depend for dividends in order to fund our working capital needs, are limited by state regulators in their ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company and are dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from our subsidiaries in order to meet our obligations. Ordinary dividend payments, or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary state departments of insurance are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by state. The formula for the majority of the states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. Some states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year’s earned surplus. If we are restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, we may not be able to fund our working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. As a result, we would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. Rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of us and thereby adversely affect our ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance company subsidiaries, as well as our public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Ratings reflect the rating agency’s opinions of an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. Due to the intense competitive environment in which we operate, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for us to take material unfavorable development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower our ratings in the future. If our property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The severity of the impact on our business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. Among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of our insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. In addition, it is possible that a lowering of the corporate debt ratings of Loews by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on our ratings, independent of any change in our circumstances. We have entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future payment obligations and assumed reserves if our ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. The ratings triggers are generally more than one level below our current ratings. Additional information on our ratings and ratings triggers is included in the MD&A under Item 7. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations that restrict our ability to do business and generate revenues. The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of our policyholders rather than 12 Table of Contents our investors. Each state in which we do business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which we do business. Their regulations relate to, among other things, the following: • standards of solvency including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on our ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; • the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; • the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; • potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; • licensing of insurers and agents; • approval of policy forms; • limitations on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and • limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. Regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. The states in which we do business also require us to provide coverage to persons whom we would not otherwise consider eligible. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. Our share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of our respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 