ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or equity. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this Report and any subsequent reports we may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission or make available to the public before investing in any securities we issue. We may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from the severe disruption in the capital and credit markets. We maintain a large portfolio of fixed income and equity securities, including large amounts of corporate and government issued debt securities, collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), asset-backed and other structured securities, equity and equity-based securities and investments in limited partnerships which pursue a variety of long and short investment strategies across a broad array of asset classes. Our investment portfolio supports our obligation to pay future insurance claims and provides investment returns which are an important part of our overall profitability. For more than a year, capital and credit markets have experienced severe levels of volatility, illiquidity, uncertainty and overall disruption. Despite government intervention, market conditions have led to the merger or failure of a number of prominent financial institutions and government sponsored entities, sharply increased unemployment and reduced economic activity. In addition, significant declines in the value of assets and securities that began with the residential sub-prime mortgage crisis have spread to nearly all classes of investments, including most of those held in our investment portfolio. As a result, during 2008 we incurred significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio and experienced substantial declines in our net investment income which have materially adversely impacted our results of operations and equity. In addition, certain categories of our investments are particularly subject to significant exposures in the current market environment. Although we normally expect limited partnership investments to provide higher returns over time, since 2008, they have presented greater risk, greater volatility and higher illiquidity than our fixed income investments. Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) also present greater risks due to the credit deterioration in the commercial real estate market. Notably, even senior tranches of CMBS have experienced significant price erosion due to market concerns involving the valuation and credit performance of commercial real estate. If these economic and market conditions persist, we may continue to experience reduced investment income and to incur substantial additional realized and unrealized losses on our investments. As a result, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. Additional information on our investment portfolio is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We may continue to incur underwriting losses as a result of the global economic crisis. Overall global economic conditions may continue to be recessionary and highly unfavorable. Although many lines of our business have both direct and indirect exposure to this economic crisis, the exposure is especially high for the lines of business that provide management and professional liability insurance, as well as surety bonds, to businesses engaged in real estate, financial services and professional services. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience unanticipated underwriting losses with respect to these lines of business. Additionally, we could experience declines in our premium volume and related insurance losses. Consequently, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be adversely impacted. Our valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment. Our investment portfolio is exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market and credit risks, many of which are unpredictable. We exercise significant judgment in analyzing these risks and in validating fair values provided by third parties for securities in our investment portfolio that are not regularly traded. We also exercise significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. Securities with exposure to sub-prime residential mortgage collateral or Alternative A (Alt-A) collateral are particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in actual collateral performance and assumptions as to future collateral performance. 9 During 2008, we incurred significant unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. In addition, we recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses primarily in the corporate and other taxable bonds, asset-backed bonds and non-redeemable preferred equity securities sectors. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of judgments, we may incur further unrealized losses and conclude that further other-than-temporary write downs of our investments are required. As a result, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. Additional information on our investment portfolio is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We are unable to predict the impact on us of governmental efforts taken and proposed to be taken in response to the economic and credit crisis. The Federal government has implemented various measures, including the establishment of the Troubled Assets Relief Program pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, in an effort to deal with the ongoing economic and credit crisis. In addition, there are numerous proposals for further legislative and regulatory actions at both the Federal and state levels, particularly with respect to the financial services industry. Since these new laws and regulations could involve critical matters affecting our operations, they may have an impact on our business and our overall financial condition. Due to this significant uncertainty, we are unable to determine whether our actions in response to these governmental efforts will be effective or to predict with any certainty the overall impact these governmental efforts will have on us. As a result, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. We may continue to incur significant losses from our investments in financial institutions. Our investment portfolio includes preferred stock and hybrid debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions. To date, government sponsored efforts to recapitalize the financial system both in the United States, as well as overseas, have been inconsistent and unpredictable. The uncertainty surrounding these efforts and their potential impact on existing financial institution securities has caused these securities to experience adverse price movement and rating agency downgrades. If this uncertainty continues or if regulatory decisions negatively affect our investments in financial institutions, we may continue to incur significant losses in our investment portfolio. As a result, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. Additional information on our investment portfolio is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of us and thereby adversely affect our ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance company subsidiaries, as well as our public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s. Ratings reflect the rating agency’s opinions of an insurance company’s financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debtholders. Due to the intense competitive environment in which we operate, the severe disruption in the capital and credit markets, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for us to take material unfavorable development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower our ratings in the future. If our property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The severity of the impact on our business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. Among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of our insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. Recently, Moody’s and A.M. Best have revised their outlook on us from stable to negative. In addition, it is possible that a lowering of the debt ratings of Loews by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on our ratings, independent of any change in our circumstances. We have entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future 10 payment obligations and assumed reserves if our ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. The ratings triggers are generally more than one level below our current ratings. Additional information on our ratings and ratings triggers is included in the MD&A under Item 7. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations that restrict our ability to do business and generate revenues. The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of our policyholders rather than our investors. Each state in which we do business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which we do business. Their regulations relate to, among other things, the following: • standards of solvency including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on our ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; • the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; • the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; • potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; • licensing of insurers and agents; • approval of policy forms; • limitations on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and • limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. Regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. The states in which we do business also require us to provide coverage to persons whom we would not otherwise consider eligible. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. Our share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of our respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. Any of these regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. We are subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if we are unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit us from operating our business. Insurance companies such as us are subject to risk-based capital standards set by state regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. These standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of our statutory capital and surplus reported in our statutory basis of accounting financial statements. Current rules require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the risk-based capital formula. If we do not meet these minimum requirements, state regulators may restrict or prohibit us from operating our business. If we are required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or circumstances, we may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless we are able to raise sufficient additional capital. Examples of events leading us to record a material charge against earnings include impairment of our investments or unexpectedly poor claims experience. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we took several actions to replenish our capital position and bolster the statutory surplus of our operating insurance subsidiaries. One of these actions was the November 7, 2008 purchase by Loews of 12,500 shares of our non-voting cumulative preferred stock (2008 Senior Preferred) for $1.25 billion. Loews, which owned approximately 90% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008, has also provided us with substantial amounts of capital in prior years. Given the ongoing turmoil in the capital and credit markets, we may be limited in our ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. In addition, Loews may be restricted in its ability or willingness to provide additional capital support to us. As a result, if we are in need of additional capital, we may be required to attempt to secure this funding from sources other than Loews on terms that are not favorable. 11 Our insurance subsidiaries, upon whom we depend for dividends in order to fund our working capital needs, are limited by state regulators in their ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company and are dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from our subsidiaries in order to meet our obligations. Dividend payments, however, must be approved by the subsidiaries’ domiciliary state departments of insurance and are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by state. The formula for the majority of the states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. Some states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year’s earned surplus. If we are restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, we may not be able to fund our working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. As a result, we would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. If we determine that loss reserves are insufficient to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims, we may need to increase our loss reserves. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. Reserves represent our best estimate at a given point in time. Insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by us, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, expected interest rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. Many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on our part. As trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called “long tail” or long duration coverages, we are sometimes required to add to our reserves. This is called unfavorable development and results in a charge to our earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. These charges can be substantial and can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and equity. Additional information on our reserves is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We are subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. These issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in our reserves which can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and equity. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. Examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: • increases in the number and size of claims relating to injuries from medical products; • the effects of accounting and financial reporting scandals and other major corporate governance failures, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of claims, including director and officer and errors and omissions insurance claims; • class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; • construction defect claims, including claims for a broad range of additional insured endorsements on policies; • clergy abuse claims, including passage of legislation to reopen or extend various statutes of limitations; and • mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to silica, welding rods, benzene, lead and various other chemical exposure claims. In light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, we review and change our reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing 12 process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. In addition, we periodically undergo state regulatory financial examinations, including review and analysis of our reserves. If estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against our earnings for the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. These charges could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. Loss reserves for asbestos and environmental pollution are especially difficult to estimate and may result in more frequent and larger additions to these reserves. Our experience has been that establishing reserves for casualty coverages relating to asbestos and environmental pollution (which we refer to as A&E) claim and claim adjustment expenses are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported claims are subject to a higher degree of variability due to a number of additional factors including, among others, the following: • coverage issues including whether certain costs are covered under the policies and whether policy limits apply; • inconsistent court decisions and developing legal theories; • continuing aggressive tactics of plaintiffs’ lawyers; • the risks and lack of predictability inherent in major litigation; • changes in the volume of asbestos and environmental pollution claims; • the impact of the exhaustion of primary limits and the resulting increase in claims on any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; • the number and outcome of direct actions against us; • our ability to recover reinsurance for these claims; and • changes in the legal and legislative environment in which we operate. As a result of this higher degree of variability, we have necessarily supplemented traditional actuarial methods and techniques with additional estimating techniques and methodologies, many of which involve significant judgment on our part. Consequently, we may periodically need to record changes in our claim and claim adjustment expense reserves in the future in these areas in amounts that could materially adversely affect our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. Additional information on A&E claims is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Asbestos claims. The estimation of reserves for asbestos claims is particularly difficult in light of the factors noted above. In addition, our ability to estimate the ultimate cost of asbestos claims is further complicated by the following: • inconsistency of court decisions and jury attitudes, as well as future court decisions; • interpretation of specific policy provisions; • allocation of liability among insurers and insureds; • missing policies and proof of coverage; • the proliferation of bankruptcy proceedings and attendant uncertainties; • novel theories asserted by policyholders and their legal counsel; • the targeting of a broader range of businesses and entities as defendants; • uncertainties in predicting the number of future claims and which other insureds may be targeted in the future; • volatility in claim numbers and settlement demands; 13 • increases in the number of non-impaired claimants and the extent to which they can be precluded from making claims; • the efforts by insureds to obtain coverage that is not subject to aggregate limits; • the long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation, as well as the resulting potential for involvement of multiple policy periods for individual claims; • medical inflation trends; • the mix of asbestos-related diseases presented; and • the ability to recover reinsurance. In addition, a number of our insureds have asserted that their claims for insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. If these insureds are successful in this regard, our potential liability for their claims would be unlimited. Some of these insureds contend that their asbestos claims fall within the so-called “non-products” liability coverage within their policies, rather than the products liability coverage, and that this “non-products” liability coverage is not subject to any aggregate limit. It is difficult to predict the extent to which these claims will succeed and, as a result, the ultimate size of these claims. Environmental pollution claims. The estimation of reserves for environmental pollution claims is complicated by liability and coverage issues arising from these claims. We and others in the insurance industry are disputing coverage for many such claims. In addition to the coverage issues noted in the asbestos claims section above, key coverage issues in environmental pollution claims include the following: • whether cleanup costs are considered damages under the policies (and accordingly whether we would be liable for these costs); • the trigger of coverage and the allocation of liability among triggered policies; • the applicability of pollution exclusions and owned property exclusions; • the potential for joint and several liability; and • the definition of an occurrence. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these issues, thus adding to the uncertainty of the outcome of many of these claims. Further, the scope of federal and state statutes and regulations determining liability and insurance coverage for environmental pollution liabilities have been the subject of extensive litigation. In many cases, courts have expanded the scope of coverage and liability for cleanup costs beyond the original intent of our insurance policies. Additionally, the standards for cleanup in environmental pollution matters are unclear, the number of sites potentially subject to cleanup under applicable laws is unknown, and the impact of various proposals to reform existing statutes and regulations is difficult to predict. We may suffer losses from non-routine litigation and arbitration matters which may exceed the reserves we have established. We face substantial risks of litigation and arbitration beyond ordinary course claims and A&E matters, which may contain assertions in excess of amounts covered by reserves that we have established. These matters may be difficult to assess or quantify and may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts that include punitive or treble damages. Accordingly, unfavorable results in these proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. Additional information on litigation is included in Notes F and G to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Catastrophe losses are unpredictable. Catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of our business. Various events can cause catastrophe losses, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather, and fires, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. In addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been 14 associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, and snow. The extent of our losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of our insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. In addition, as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to us to be finally determined. As our claim experience develops on a particular catastrophe, we may be required to adjust our reserves, or take unfavorable development, to reflect our revised estimates of the total cost of claims. We believe we could incur significant catastrophe losses in the future. Therefore, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. Additional information on catastrophe losses is included in the MD&A under Item 7 and Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. Our key assumptions used to determine reserves and deferred acquisition costs for our long term care product offerings could vary significantly from actual experience. Our reserves and deferred acquisition costs for our long term care product offerings are based on certain key assumptions including morbidity, which is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted, policy persistency, which is the percentage of policies remaining in force, interest rates and future health care cost trends. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition asset may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring us to add to reserves, or take unfavorable development. Therefore, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. We continue to face exposure to losses arising from terrorist acts, despite the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 extended, until December 31, 2014, the program established within the U.S. Department of Treasury by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002. This program requires insurers to offer terrorism coverage and the federal government to share in insured losses arising from acts of terrorism. Given the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity and frequency of potential terrorist acts, this program does not provide complete protection for future losses derived from acts of terrorism. Further, the laws of certain states restrict our ability to mitigate this residual exposure. For example, some states mandate property insurance coverage of damage from fire following a loss, thereby prohibiting us from excluding terrorism exposure. In addition, some states generally prohibit us from excluding terrorism exposure from our primary workers’ compensation policies. Consequently, there is substantial uncertainty as to our ability to contain our terrorism exposure effectively since we continue to issue forms of coverage, in particular, workers’ compensation, that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. As a result, our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted by terrorist act losses. Our premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. We purchase reinsurance to help manage our exposure to risk. Under our reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of our claim and claim adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which affects the level of our business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk we retain. If we are unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost we deem acceptable, we may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Therefore, our financial results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Additional information on reinsurance is included in Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We may not be able to collect amounts owed to us by reinsurers. We have significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables in our balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. The ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge our primary liability for claims. As a result, we are subject to credit risk relating to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Certain of our reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial conditions or have been downgraded by rating agencies. A continuation or worsening of the current highly unfavorable global economic conditions, along with the severe disruptions in the capital and credit markets, could similarly impact all of our reinsurers. In addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which we believe are due to us. If we are not able to collect the amounts due to us from reinsurers, our claims expenses will be higher which could materially adversely affect 15 our results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. Additional information on reinsurance is included in Note H to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. We face intense competition in our industry and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business. All aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and we must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve our insurance products and services. We compete with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. As a result, our premium levels, expense ratio, results of operations, equity, business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. We are dependent on a small number of key executives and other key personnel to operate our business successfully. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain high quality key executives and other employees. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers to implement our business strategy. The loss of the services of any members of our management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the implementation of our business strategies. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 