ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below should not be considered to be comprehensive or all-inclusive. If any events occur that give rise to the following risks, our business, financial condition, cash flow, prospects or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and as a result, the trading price of our Class A common stock could be materially and adversely impacted. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, cash flow, prospects or results of operations. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information set forth in this report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. We have issued debt and have a substantial uncommitted facility available to us. With respect to the debt, we have $250 million in Senior Notes due on June 1, 2010 which requires us to have sufficient funds or credit available to repay or refinance that amount to avoid a default under those notes and a potential cross default under our other debt and credit facility or other debt instruments. If interest rates rise or if we draw additional amounts under the facility, our debt service cost could increase and limit cash flow available to fund our operations, and limit our ability to obtain further debt or equity financing. As of June 30, 2009, we have outstanding $250 million aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Senior Notes due June 1, 2010 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% Senior Notes due June 1, 2015 (collectively, the “Senior Notes”) and approximately $1.79 billion is drawn under our Credit Facility (defined below). If we do not have sufficient funds or credit available to repay or refinance the Senior Notes due on June 1, 2010 on that date, we will be in default under those notes (which may cause a cross default under our other Senior Notes and Credit Facility). The Credit Facility provides for a senior secured term loan facility of $1.8 billion (the “Term Loan Facility”) and a senior secured revolving credit facility of $1 billion (the “Revolving Facility”) (collectively, the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility includes an uncommitted accordion feature of up to $750 million in the aggregate allowing for future incremental borrowings under the Revolving Facility or the Term Loan Facility, which may be used for general corporate purposes. An additional uncommitted accordion feature which allowed for incremental borrowings to be used to fund additional purchases of our equity securities or extinguishment of our Senior Notes expired on March 20, 2009. Based on the current leverage ratios under our Credit Facility, we had approximately $483.0 million available for current draw under this revolving facility. Obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by us and substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and certain of our foreign subsidiaries (but only to the extent such guarantees would not result in materially adverse tax consequences). In addition, Credit Facility obligations are secured under certain pledge agreements by (i) a first priority perfected pledge of all notes owned by us and the guarantors and the capital stock of substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and certain of our foreign subsidiaries (subject to certain exceptions, including to the extent the pledge would give rise to additional SEC reporting requirements for our subsidiaries or result in materially adverse tax 11 Table of Contents consequences), and (ii) a first priority perfected security interest in all other assets owned by us and the guarantors, subject to certain exceptions. The interest rates under the Credit Facility fluctuate with changes in the market rates and with changes in our leverage ratio. Thus, our debt service cost will increase as market interest rates increase and as our leverage ratio increases. It will be necessary to utilize cash flow from operating activities to fund debt service cost related to our indebtedness. If we fail to have sufficient cash flow to satisfy the debt service cost of our indebtedness, then we could default on our indebtedness, resulting in foreclosure on the assets used to conduct our business. In addition, reduction of our available cash flow may negatively impact our business activities, including our ability to make future acquisitions, our ability to compete for client contracts requiring upfront capital costs, and our ability to meet our other obligations. Further, the amount of our indebtedness and our reduction in available cash flow may limit our ability to obtain further debt or equity financing. In addition, if we are fully drawn under our Credit Facility (including the increase resulting from the accordion features of the Revolving Facility), the book value of our equity may be in a deficit position. The complexity of regulatory environments in which we operate has increased and may continue to increase our costs. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements and environmental legislation that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our Class A common stock and Senior Notes are publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations for federal, state and financial market exchange entities (including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NYSE). We have implemented policies and procedures and continue developing additional policies and procedures in response to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we have made a significant effort to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (including, among other things the development of policies and procedures to satisfy the provisions thereof regarding internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and certification of financial statements appearing in periodic reports). Our effort to comply with these new regulations has resulted in, and is likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. We are subject to the oversight of the SEC and other regulatory agencies. Investigations by those agencies could divert management’s focus and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and financial condition. As a result of the regulation and oversight of the SEC and other regulatory agencies, we may be subject to legal and administrative proceedings. We are currently the subject of an ongoing SEC and Department of Justice (“DOJ”) investigation related to our historical stock option grant practices. As a result of these investigations, several derivative lawsuits were filed in connection with our stock option grant practices generally alleging claims related to breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment by certain of our directors and senior executives. The shareholder derivative lawsuits have been resolved. However, as a result of these investigations and shareholder actions, we have incurred and could continue to incur significant legal costs and a significant amount of time of our senior management has been focused on these matters that otherwise would have been directed toward the growth and development of our business. The SEC and DOJ investigations are continuing and until these investigations of our stock option grant practices are complete, we are unable to predict the effect, if any, that these investigations and lawsuits will have on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We cannot assure that the SEC and/or DOJ will not seek to impose fines or take other actions against us that could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, publicity surrounding the SEC’s and DOJ’s investigations, or any enforcement action, even if ultimately resolved favorably for us, could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations or business. Our credit rating or further reductions of our credit rating may have an adverse impact on our business. The ratings on our current outstanding obligations currently established by the ratings agencies are below investment grade. Below investment grade ratings could negatively impact our ability to renew contracts with our existing clients, limit our ability to compete for new clients, result in increased premiums for surety bonds to support our clients contracts, and/or result in a requirement that we provide collateral to secure our surety bonds. Further, certain of our commercial outsourcing contracts provide that, in the event our credit ratings are downgraded to specified levels, the client may elect to terminate its contract with us and either pay a reduced termination fee or, in some limited instances, no termination fee. A credit rating reduction or downgrade could adversely affect these client relationships. There may be reductions in our ratings if we incur additional indebtedness, including amounts that may be drawn under our Credit Facility. 12 Table of Contents A decline in revenues from or a loss or failure of significant clients could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Our revenues, profitability, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by the loss or failure of significant clients. Some of our clients are in business sectors which have experienced significant financial difficulties or consolidation, and/or the reduction of volumes or their inability to make payments to us, as a result of, among other things, their merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, contract expiration, non-renewal or early termination (including termination for convenience) or business or financial failure or deterioration. Economic and political conditions could affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A prolonged economic downturn, continued high energy prices or a negative or uncertain political climate could, or could continue to, adversely affect our clients’ financial conditions and the level of business activity of our clients and the industries we serve, which may reduce our clients’ demand for our services or depress pricing of those services and have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues and cash flow. In addition, we incur certain fixed costs related to providing our information technology and business process outsourcing services to our clients. Therefore the loss or failure of any one of our significant clients could leave us with a significantly higher level of fixed costs than is necessary for some period of time to serve our remaining clients, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flow. Our ability to recover capital investments in connection with our contracts is subject to risk. In order to attract and retain large outsourcing contracts, we sometimes make significant capital investments to perform our services under the contract, such as purchases of information technology equipment and costs incurred to develop and implement software. The net book value of such assets recorded, including a portion of our intangible assets, could be impaired, and our earnings and cash flow could be materially adversely affected in the event of the early termination of all or a part of such a contract or the reduction in volumes and services thereunder for reasons such as, among other things, a client’s merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, business failure or deterioration, or a client’s exercise of contract termination rights. We have non-recurring revenue, which subjects us to a risk that our revenues and cash flows from operations may fluctuate from period to period. Revenue generated from our non-recurring services, including our consulting services, unclaimed property escheatment services and transportation projects, may fluctuate due to factors both within and outside of our control. Our mix of non-recurring and recurring revenues is impacted by acquisitions as well as growth in our non-recurring lines of business. There is less predictability and certainty in the timing and amount of revenue generated by our non-recurring services and, accordingly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flow may be significantly impacted by the timing and amounts of revenues generated from our non-recurring services. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. We expect to encounter additional competition as we address new markets and new competitors enter our existing markets. If we are forced to lower our pricing or if demand for our services decreases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources, and they may be able to use their resources to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies, to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services, or to obtain client contracts where sizable asset purchases, investments or financing support are required. In addition, we must frequently compete with a client’s own internal business process and information technology capabilities, which may constitute a fixed cost for the client. In the future, competition could continue to emerge from large computer hardware or software providers as they shift their business strategy to include services. Competition has also emerged from European and Indian offshore service providers seeking to expand into our markets and from large consulting companies seeking operational outsourcing opportunities. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract new work from our base of existing clients. Our business model also depends on relationships we develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a subcontractor, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to 13 Table of Contents obtain additional work from that client. In particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. We are dependent to a significant extent on third party providers, such as subcontractors, a relatively small number of primary software vendors, utility providers and network providers, and could be materially adversely affected if they cannot deliver or perform as expected or if our relationships with them are terminated or otherwise change. Our ability to service our clients and deliver and implement solutions depends to a large extent on third party providers such as subcontractors, a relatively small number of primary software vendors and utility providers and network providers meeting their obligations to us and our expectations in a timely, quality manner. Our business, revenues, profitability and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and we might incur significant additional liabilities if these third party providers do not meet these obligations or our expectations or if they terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us or were to offer their products to us with less advantageous prices and other terms than we previously had. In addition, many of our facilities are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States where the provision of utility services, including electricity and water, may not be consistently reliable and, while there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services may have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues, cash flow and profitability. We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses or technologies. Historically, we have made a significant number of acquisitions that have expanded the products and services we offer, provided a presence in a complementary business or expanded our geographic presence. We intend to continue our acquisition strategy. We cannot, however, make any assurances that we will be able to identify any potential acquisition candidates or consummate any additional acquisitions or that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be advantageous to us. If the businesses or technologies we acquire fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if their liabilities exceed our expectations, our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Without additional acquisitions, we are unlikely to maintain historical total growth rates. A failure to properly manage our operations and our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have expanded our operations in recent years. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. Some market opportunities require that we develop software to perform the services we become contractually obligated to perform, such as our Medicaid activities. This growth places a significant demand on our management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must design, develop, implement and improve our operational systems, which may include the design, development and implementation of software and timely development and implementation of procedures and controls. If we fail to design, develop and implement and improve these systems, we may not be able to service our clients’ needs, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions or operate our businesses effectively. We could also trigger contractual credits to clients or a contractual default. Failure to properly transition new clients to our systems, properly budget transition costs or accurately estimate new contract operational costs could result in delays in our contract performance, trigger service level penalties, impair fixed or intangible assets or result in contracts whose profit margins did not meet our expectations or our historical profit margins. Failure to properly integrate acquired operations could result in increased cost. As a result of any of these problems associated with expansion, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our success depends on our ability to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to continuing changes in technology, industry developments and client needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, services, solutions and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Our Government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations, which, if exercised, could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts. Approximately 40% of our fiscal year 2009 revenues were derived from contracts with federal, state and local governments and their agencies, including our contract with the Department of Education as well as international governments and their 14 Table of Contents agencies. Governments and their agencies may have the right to terminate many of these contracts at any time, without cause. These contracts, upon their expiration or termination, are typically subject to a bidding process in which we may not be successful. Also, our Department of Education contract and our other federal contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures of the federal government under this contract. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government agencies. If the government finds that we improperly charged any costs to a contract, the costs are not reimbursable or, if already reimbursed, the cost must be refunded to the government. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits, investigations or the penalties or sanctions therefore could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may incur delays in signing and commencing new business as the result of protests of government contracts that we are awarded. After a government contract is awarded, depending on the applicable law, a competing bidder may protest the award. If we are awarded a contract and it is protested, it will be necessary to incur costs to defend the award of the contract. Costs to defend an award may be significant and could include hiring experts to defend the basis for the contract award. Some contract protests may take years to resolve. In some instances where we are awarded a contract, the contracting government entity may request that we sign a contract and commence services, even though the contract award has been protested. If the protest is upheld, then our contract would be terminated and the amounts due to us for services that have been performed to date would be subject to payment pursuant to the terms of the terminated contract. Such terms may not provide for full recovery of our incurred costs. In addition, if the government agency requests that we make changes to our contractual agreement during a protest period, but the government agency is unable or unwilling to modify the contract at the end of the protest period (whether or not we are successful in defending the protest), we may be unable to recover the full costs incurred in making such changes. In addition, we may suffer negative publicity as the result of any contract protest being upheld and our contract being terminated. Further, if the contract is re-bid, we could incur additional costs associated with the re-bid process and be subject to a potential protest if we are awarded a subsequent contract. Some of our contracts contain provisions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, our inability to control costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Most of our contracts permit termination in the event our performance is not consistent with the service levels specified in those contracts, or require us to provide credits to our clients for failure to meet those service levels. The invoking of those termination or service level penalty provisions by clients, or the seeking of damages by clients permitted under those contracts or the loss of our reputation if clients are not satisfied with our level of performance, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Other contracts contain pricing provisions requiring that our services be priced based on a fixed price or a fixed price per transaction. Our pricing is dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, or if we encounter increased or unexpected costs, delays, failures or risks, including those outside our control, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. In addition, some contract provisions permit a client to request that their pricing be established by reference to a pre-established standard or benchmark and some of our contracts contain re-pricing provisions which can result in reductions of our fees for performing our services. In such situations, we are exposed to the risk that we may be unable to price our services to levels that will permit recovery of our costs, and may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Our inability to control our costs and improve our efficiency would also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our cost reduction initiatives might not be sufficient to respond to all pressures on our pricing and, even if we achieve some cost savings, we could experience erosion of operating income as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements if current pricing pressures accelerate. 15 Table of Contents Claims associated with our actuarial consulting and benefit plan management services could negatively impact our business. In May 2005, we acquired the human resources consulting business of Mellon Financial Corporation, which includes actuarial consulting services related to commercial, governmental and Taft-Hartley pension plans. Providers of these types of consulting services have experienced frequent claims, some of which have resulted in litigation and significant settlements or judgments, particularly when investment markets have performed poorly and pension funding levels have been adversely impacted. In addition, our total benefits outsourcing business unit manages and administers benefit plans on behalf of its clients and is responsible for processing numerous plan transactions for current and former employees of those clients. We are subject to claims from our client and its current and former employees if transactions are not properly processed. If any claim is made against us in the future related to our actuarial consulting services or benefit plan management services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected as a result of the time and cost required to defend such a claim, the cost of settling such a claim or paying any judgments resulting therefrom, or the damage to our reputation in the industry that could result from the negative publicity surrounding such a claim. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on the use of intellectual property. We do not own the majority of the software that we use to run our business; instead we license this software from a small number of primary vendors. If these vendors assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their software or related intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims, which could have a material effect on our profitability and cash flow. In addition, if any of our vendors’ infringement claims are ultimately successful, our vendors could require us (1) to cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology, (2) to obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors, or (3) to redesign our products and services which rely on the challenged software or technology. In addition, we may be exposed to claims for monetary damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending an infringement claim and our vendors require us to initiate any of the above actions, or we are required to pay monetary damages, then such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and cash flow. We are subject to United States and foreign jurisdiction laws relating to individually identifiable information, and failure to comply with those laws, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect individually identifiable information, including social security numbers, financial and health information. For example, in 1996, Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and as required therein, the Department of Health and Human Services established regulations governing, among other things, the privacy, security and electronic transmission of individually identifiable health information. We have taken measures to comply with each of those regulations on or before the required dates. Another example is the European Union Directive on Data Protection, entitled “Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.” We have also taken steps to address the requirements of that Directive. Other United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws apply to the processing of individually identifiable information as well, and additional legislation may be enacted at any time. Failure to comply with these types of laws may subject us to, among other things, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. We are subject to breaches of our security systems. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our, our clients’ and our suppliers’ confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through the misdirection, theft or loss of physical media. These include, for example, the encryption of information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or the information we are trying to 16 Table of Contents protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to a Company facility or electronic access to our information systems or such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Budget deficits and/or fluctuations in the number of requests for proposals issued by governments and their agencies may adversely impact our business. Approximately 40% of our fiscal year 2009 revenues were derived from contracts with federal, state and local governments and their agencies, as well as international governments and their agencies. From time to time, government clients may face budget deficits. This is particularly true as a result of the recent economic conditions. Also, the number of requests for proposals issued by government agencies are subject to fluctuation. A significant number of our government contracts have provisions permitting termination by the contracting government agency for convenience. If government budgets were reduced, then services we provide could become non-essential and our contracts could be terminated and future contracting opportunities for government contracts could be limited. Such an event could cause the net book value of the investments we made to obtain and service the contract to become impaired. In addition, the loss of existing government contracts and future contracting opportunities could reduce our revenue and profitability. Our international and domestic operations are subject to a number of risks. We have expanded our international operations and continually evaluate the acquisition of companies formed and operating in foreign countries. As of June 30, 2009, we had approximately 32,000 employees in Mexico, India, Jamaica, the Philippines, Argentina, Chile, Ghana, Guatemala, the Dominican Republic, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, Colombia, Spain, Canada, and France, as well as a number of other countries, that primarily support our commercial business process and information technology services. Our international operations and acquisitions are subject to a number of risks. These risks include the possible impact on our operations of the laws of foreign countries where we may do business including, among others, data privacy, laws regarding licensing and labor council requirements. In addition, we may experience difficulty integrating the management and operations of businesses we acquire internationally, and we may have difficulty attracting, retaining and motivating highly skilled and qualified personnel to staff key managerial positions in our ongoing international operations. Our international operations may also be impacted by trade restrictions, such as tariffs and duties or other trade controls imposed by the United States or other jurisdictions, as well as other factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because of these foreign operations we are subject to regulations, such as those administered by the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”) and export control regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. Violation of these regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against our officers, and prohibitions against exporting, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our international and domestic operations and facilities and those of our clients are subject to a number of risks related to general economic, social and political conditions in the countries where we or they operate, including, among others, fluctuations in cultural differences, political instability, acts of violence, armed hostilities or natural disasters, employee work stoppages or strikes and the additional expenses and risks inherent in conducting worldwide operations across geographically distant locations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, a percentage of our revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Approximately 8% of our revenues for fiscal year 2009 were derived from internationally based clients. As of June 30, 2009, approximately 12% of our long-lived assets were located outside the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have a number of adverse effects on us. • Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each 17 Table of Contents reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. Declines in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be lower than our consolidated earnings in local currency and could affect our reported results when compared against other periods. Conversely, increases in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher than our consolidated earnings in local currency and could affect our reported results when compared against other periods. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. • In some countries we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. • As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency, and there can be no assurance that our contractual provisions or any currency hedging activities would offset this impact. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. A failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, skilled management and qualified subcontractors may have an adverse impact on our business. Because we operate in intensely competitive markets, our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel and to subcontract with qualified, competent subcontractors. If we fail to attract, train, and retain sufficient numbers of qualified engineers, technical staff and sales and marketing representatives or are unable to contract with qualified, competent subcontractors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents. Additionally, we may be required to increase our hiring in geographic areas outside of the United States, which could subject us to increased geopolitical and exchange rate risk. Our success also depends on the skills, experience, and performance of key members of our management team. The loss of any key employee or the loss of a key subcontractor relationship could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations and prospects. Risks associated with loans that we service may reduce our profitability and cash flow. Our Commercial Education line of business services (for various lenders and under various service agreements) a portfolio of approximately 5.0 million loans with an outstanding principal balance of approximately $55.6 billion as of June 30, 2009 made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, which loans are guaranteed by a federal government agency. If a loan is in default, then a claim is made upon the guarantor. If the guarantor denies the claim because of a servicing error, then under certain of the servicing agreements we may be required to purchase the loan from the lender. Upon purchase of the loan, we attempt to cure the servicing errors and either sell the loan back to the guarantor (which must occur within a specified period of time) or sell the loan on the open market to a third party. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to cure the servicing errors or sell the loan on the open market. Our reserves, which are based on historical information, may be inadequate if our servicing performance results in the requirement that we repurchase a substantial number of loans, which repurchase could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow and profitability. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law and our stock ownership could deter takeover attempts. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, defer, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our capital stock. Our stockholders might view transactions such as these as being in their best interests because, for example, a change of control might result in a price higher than the market price for shares of the Class A common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • require an 80% vote of the stockholders to amend some provisions of our certificate of incorporation; 18 Table of Contents • require an 80% vote of the stockholders to amend some provisions of our bylaws; • permit only our Chairman, President or a majority of the Board of Directors (calculated as if there were no vacancies) to call stockholder meetings; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 3.0 million shares of preferred stock in series with the terms of each series to be fixed by our Board of Directors; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue Class B common stock, which shares are entitled to ten votes per share; • permit directors to be removed, with or without cause, only by a vote of at least 80% of the combined voting power; and • specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations to be considered at a meeting of stockholders. Further, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also generally restricts mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. Further, we have entered into change of control agreements with certain of our executive officers, which may have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited takeover proposal. In addition, as of August 20, 2009, Darwin Deason beneficially owns 6,599,372 shares of Class B common stock and 2,140,884 shares of the Class A common stock and controls approximately 43.6% of our total voting power (based on shares of both classes of common stock outstanding). As a result, Mr. Deason has the requisite voting power to significantly affect many of our significant decisions, including the power to block corporate actions such as an amendment to most provisions of our certificate of incorporation. Mr. Deason has an employment agreement, with a term that currently ends on May 18, 2010, provided that such term shall automatically be extended for an additional year on May 18 of each year, unless thirty days prior to May 18 of any year, Mr. Deason gives notice to us that he does not wish to extend the term or our Board of Directors (upon a unanimous vote of the directors, except for Mr. Deason) gives notice to Mr. Deason that it does not wish to extend the term. The price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for the Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended August 20, 2009, the closing prices of our Class A common stock as reported on the NYSE ranged from a high of $53.62 per share to a low of $35.72 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many high technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of information technology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Other Risks We have attempted to identify material risk factors currently affecting our business and company. However, additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may occur or become material. These risks could impair our business operations or adversely affect revenues, cash flow or profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 