ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below should not be considered to be comprehensive and all-inclusive. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any events occur that give rise to the following risks, our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and as a result, the trading price of our Class A common stock could be materially and adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information set forth in this report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. We have issued debt and have a substantial uncommitted facility available to us. Our debt service cost could limit cash flow available to fund our operations, and may limit our ability to obtain further debt or equity financing. As of June 30, 2007, we have outstanding approximately $500 million of Senior Notes (defined in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Facilities) we sold in a public offering in June 2005, and approximately $1.8 billion is drawn under our Credit Facility (defined 7 Table of Contents in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Notes). The Credit Facility provides for a senior secured term loan facility of $1.8 billion, with the ability to increase it by up to $2 billion (as of June 30, 2007), under certain circumstances (the “Term Loan Facility”) and a senior secured revolving credit facility of $1 billion with the ability to increase it by up to $750 million (the “Revolving Facility”). Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure our Credit Facility and our Senior Notes. If we are fully drawn under our Credit Facility (including the increase resulting from the accordion features of the Revolving Facility), the book value of our equity may be in a deficit position. The interest rates under the Credit Facility fluctuate with changes in the market rates and with changes in our leverage ratio. Thus, our debt service cost will increase as market interest rates increase and as our leverage ratio increases. It will be necessary to utilize cash flow from operating activities to fund debt service cost related to our indebtedness. If we fail to have sufficient cash flow to satisfy the debt service cost of our indebtedness, then we could default on our indebtedness, resulting in foreclosure on the assets used to conduct our business. In addition, reduction of our available cash flow may negatively impact our business, including our ability to make future acquisitions, ability to compete for customer contracts requiring upfront capital costs, and our ability to meet our other obligations. Further, the amount of our indebtedness and our reduction in available cash flow may limit our ability to obtain further debt or equity financing. Alleged defaults and purported acceleration of our Senior Notes, if upheld in litigation, could have a negative impact on our cash flow and divert resources that could otherwise be utilized in our business operations. Certain holders of our Senior Notes have alleged that we have defaulted under our Senior Notes and have accelerated payment of the principal and accrued interest on the Senior Notes. We have taken the position that no default and no acceleration has occurred with respect to the Senior Notes or otherwise under the Indenture dated June 6, 2005 (the “Indenture”) between us and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., which has been subsequently replaced as Trustee by Wilmington Trust Company (the “Trustee”), and filed a lawsuit against the Trustee in the United States District Court, Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, seeking a declaratory judgment affirming our position. There can be no assurance of the outcome of that lawsuit. If a final judgment is rendered that there has been a default and acceleration has occurred, then we may have to pay the principal and accrued interest under the Senior Notes. While we do have availability under our Credit Facility to draw funds to repay the Senior Notes, there may be a decrease in our credit availability that could otherwise be used for other corporate purposes, such as acquisitions and share repurchases. The complexity of regulatory environments in which we operate has increased and may continue to increase our costs. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements and environmental legislation that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our Class A common stock and Senior Notes are publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations for federal, state and financial market exchange entities (including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NYSE). We have implemented new policies and procedures and continue developing additional policies and procedures in response to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we have made a significant effort to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (including, among other things the development of policies and procedures to satisfy the provisions thereof regarding internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and certification of financial statements appearing in periodic reports) and the formation of a compliance department to develop policies and monitor compliance with laws (including, among others, privacy laws, export control laws, rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Asset Controls and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). Our effort to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. We are subject to the oversight of the SEC and other regulatory agencies and investigations by those agencies could divert management’s focus and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and financial condition. As a result of this regulation and oversight, we may be subject to legal and administrative proceedings. We are currently the subject of an ongoing SEC and Department of Justice (“DOJ”) investigation related to our historical stock option grant practices. As a result of these investigations, several derivative lawsuits have been filed in connection with our stock option grant practices generally alleging claims related to breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment by certain of our directors and senior executives. As the result of these investigations and shareholder actions, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal costs and a significant amount of time of our senior management has been focused on these matters that otherwise would have been directed toward the growth and development of our business. We have concluded our internal investigation of our stock option grant practices as discussed in Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The SEC and DOJ investigations are continuing and until these investigations of our stock option grant practices are complete, we are unable to predict the effect, if any, that these investigations and lawsuits will have on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We cannot assure that the SEC and/or DOJ will not seek to impose fines or take other actions against us that could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, publicity surrounding the 8 Table of Contents SEC’s and DOJ’s investigations, the derivative causes of actions, or any enforcement action, even if ultimately resolved favorably for us, could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations or business. Reductions of our credit rating may have an adverse impact on our business. The ratings on our current outstanding obligations currently established by the ratings agencies are below investment grade. There may be reductions in our ratings if we incur additional indebtedness, including amounts that may be drawn under our Credit Facility. Below investment grade ratings could negatively impact our ability to renew contracts with our existing customers, limit our ability to compete for new customers, result in increased premiums for surety bonds to support our customer contracts, and/or result in a requirement that we provide collateral to secure our surety bonds. Further, certain of our commercial outsourcing contracts provide that in the event our credit ratings are downgraded to specified levels, the customer may elect to terminate its contract with us and either pay a reduced termination fee or, in some limited instances, no termination fee. A credit rating downgrade could adversely affect these customer relationships. A decline in revenues from or a loss of significant clients could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Our revenues, profitability, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by the loss of significant clients and/or the reduction of volumes and services provided to our significant clients as a result of, among other things, their merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, contract expiration, non-renewal or early termination (including termination for convenience) or business failure or deterioration. In addition, we incur fixed costs related to our information technology services and business process outsourcing clients. Therefore the loss of any one of our significant clients could leave us with a significantly higher level of fixed costs than is necessary to serve our remaining clients, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flow. Our ability to recover capital investments in connection with our contracts is subject to risk. In order to attract and retain large outsourcing contracts we sometimes make significant capital investments to perform the agreement, such as purchases of information technology equipment and costs incurred to develop and implement software. The net book value of such assets recorded, including a portion of our intangible assets, could be impaired, and our earnings and cash flow could be materially adversely affected in the event of the early termination of all or a part of such a contract or the reduction in volumes and services thereunder for reasons such as, among other things, a client’s merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, business failure or deterioration, or a client’s exercise of contract termination rights. We have non-recurring revenue, which subjects us to a risk that our revenues from year to year may fluctuate. Revenue generated from our non-recurring services, including our consulting and unclaimed property escheatment services, may increase or decrease in relation to the revenue generated from our recurring services, such as business process outsourcing and information technology outsourcing. Our mix of non-recurring and recurring revenues is impacted by acquisitions as well as growth in our non-recurring lines of business. There is less predictability and certainty in the timing and amount of revenue generated by our non-recurring services and, accordingly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flow may be significantly impacted by the timing and amounts of revenues generated from our non-recurring services. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. We expect to encounter additional competition as we address new markets and new competitors enter our existing markets. If we are forced to lower our pricing or if demand for our services decreases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources, and they may be able to use their resources to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies, to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services, or to obtain client contracts where sizable asset purchases, investments or financing support are required. In addition, we must frequently compete with a client’s own internal business process and information technology capabilities, which may constitute a fixed cost for the client. In the future, competition could continue to emerge from large computer hardware or software providers as they shift their business strategy to include services. Competition has also emerged from European and Indian offshore service providers seeking to expand into our markets and from large consulting companies seeking operational outsourcing opportunities (please see discussion in Item 1, Part 1. Business – Competition). Also, we believe that our ability to compete for new business may be impacted by the uncertainty surrounding our future ownership structure. We may not be able to make acquisitions that will complement our growth. Historically, we have made a significant number of acquisitions that have expanded the products and services we offer, provided a presence in a complementary business or expanded our geographic presence. We intend to continue our acquisition strategy. Please see discussion in Item 1, Part 1. Business – Business Strategy. We cannot, however, make any assurances that we will be able to identify any potential acquisition candidates or consummate any additional acquisitions or that any future 9 Table of Contents acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be advantageous to us. Without additional acquisitions, we are unlikely to maintain historical total growth rates. A failure to properly manage our operations and our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have rapidly expanded our operations in recent years. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. Some market opportunities require that we develop software to perform the services we become contractually obligated to perform, such as our Medicaid activities. This rapid growth places a significant demand on our management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must design, develop, implement and improve our operational systems, which includes the design, development and implementation of software, if necessary, and timely development and implementation of procedures and controls. If we fail to design, develop and implement these systems and to make improvements to these systems, we may not be able to service our clients’ needs, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions or operate our businesses effectively. We could also trigger contractual credits to clients or a contractual default. Failure to properly transition new clients to our systems, properly budget transition costs or accurately estimate new contract operational costs could result in delays in our contract performance, trigger service level penalties, impairments of fixed or intangible assets or result in contracts whose profit margins did not meet our expectations or our historical profit margins. Failure to properly integrate acquired operations could result in increased cost. As a result of any of these problems associated with expansion, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Our Government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations, which, if exercised, could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts. Approximately 40% of our fiscal year 2007 revenues were derived from contracts with state and local governments and from federal government agencies, including our contract with the Department of Education. Governments and their agencies may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. Also, our Department of Education contract is subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures to be made by the federal government under this contract. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government agencies. If the government finds that we improperly charged any costs to a contract, the costs are not reimbursable or, if already reimbursed, the cost must be refunded to the government. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, the contractor may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits, investigations or the penalties or sanctions therefore could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may incur delays in signing and commencing new business as the result of protests of government contracts that we are awarded. After an award of a government contract, a competing bidder may protest the award. If we are awarded the contract and it is protested, it will be necessary to incur costs to defend the award of the contract. Costs to defend an award may be significant and could include hiring experts to defend the basis for the contract award. Some contract protests may take years to resolve. In some instances where we are awarded a contract, the contracting government entity may request that we sign a contract and commence services, even though the contract award has been protested. If the protest is upheld, then our contract would be terminated and the amounts due to us for services that have been performed to date would be subject to payment pursuant to the terms of the terminated contract. Such terms may not provide for full recovery of our incurred costs. In addition, if the government agency requests that we make changes to our contractual agreement during a protest period, but the government agency is unable or unwilling to modify the contract at the end of the protest period (whether or not we are successful in defending the protest), we may be unable to recover the full costs incurred in making such changes. In addition, we may suffer negative publicity as the result of any contract protest being upheld and our contract being terminated. Further, if there is a re-bid of the contract, we would incur additional costs associated with the re-bid process and be subject to a potential protest if we are awarded a subsequent contract. The exercise of contract termination provisions and service level penalties may have an adverse impact on our business. Most of our contracts with our clients permit termination in the event our performance is not consistent with service levels specified in those contracts, or require us to provide credits to our clients for failure to meet service levels. In addition, if clients are not satisfied with our level of performance, our clients may seek damages as permitted under the contract and/or our reputation in the industry may suffer, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. 10 Table of Contents Some of our contracts contain pricing provisions that could adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Some of our contracts contain pricing provisions requiring that our services be priced based on a fixed price or a fixed price per transaction. In addition, some contract provisions permit a customer to request that their pricing be established by reference to a pre-established standard or benchmark and some of our contracts contain re-pricing provisions which can result in reductions of our fees for performing our services. In such situations, we are exposed to the risk that we may be unable to price our services to levels that will permit recovery of our costs, and may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Claims associated with our actuarial consulting and benefit plan management services could negatively impact our business. In May 2005, we acquired the human resources consulting business of Mellon Financial Corporation, which includes actuarial consulting services related to commercial, governmental and Taft-Hartley pension plans. Providers of these types of consulting services have experienced frequent claims, some of which have resulted in litigation and significant settlements or judgments, particularly when investment markets have performed poorly and pension funding levels have been adversely impacted. In addition, our total benefits outsourcing business unit manages and administers benefit plans on behalf of its clients and is responsible for processing numerous plan transactions for current and former employees of those clients. We are subject to claims from the client and its current and former employees if transactions are not properly processed. If any claim is made against us in the future related to our actuarial consulting services or benefit plan management services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected as a result of the time and cost required to defend such a claim, the cost of settling such a claim or paying any judgments resulting therefrom, or the damage to our reputation in the industry that could result from the negative publicity surrounding such a claim. The loss of or change in our significant software vendor relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to service our clients depends to a large extent on our use of various software programs that we license from a small number of primary software vendors. If our significant software vendors were to terminate, refuse to renew our contracts with them or offer to renew our contracts with them on less advantageous terms than previously contracted, we might not be able to replace the related software programs and would be unable to serve our clients or we would recognize reduced margins from the contracts with our clients, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, financial position, profitability and cash flow. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on the use of intellectual property. We do not own the majority of the software that we use to run our business; instead we license this software from a small number of primary vendors. If these vendors assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their software or related intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims, which could have a material effect on our profitability and cash flow. In addition, if any of our vendors’ infringement claims are ultimately successful, our vendors could require us (1) to cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology, (2) to obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors, or (3) to redesign our products and services which rely on the challenged software or technology. If we are unsuccessful in the defense of an infringement claim and our vendors require us to initiate any of the above actions, then such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to United States and foreign jurisdiction laws relating to individually identifiable information, and failure to comply with those laws, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect individually identifiable information, including social security numbers, financial and health information. For example, in 1996, Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and as required therein, the Department of Health and Human Services established regulations governing, among other things, the privacy, security and electronic transmission of individually identifiable health information. We have taken measures to comply with each of those regulations on or before the required dates. Another example is the European Union Directive on Data Protection, entitled “Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.” We have also taken steps to address the requirements of that Directive. Other United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws apply to the processing of individually identifiable information as well, and additional legislation may be enacted at any time. Failure to comply with these types of laws may subject us to, among other things, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to breaches of our security system. Security systems have been implemented with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and to protecting confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals against unauthorized access through our information systems. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or the information we are trying to protect. In addition, we transmit such information electronically or often rely on third party vendors to transport physical media such as tapes and disks containing such information to and from our facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to a Company facility or electronic access to our information systems or such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Budget deficits and/or fluctuations in the number of requests for proposals issued by state and local governments and their agencies may adversely impact our business. Approximately 40% of our fiscal year 2007 revenues were derived from contracts with federal, state and local governments and their agencies. From time to time, state and local governments with which we have contracts may face budget deficits. Also, the number of requests for proposals issued by state and local government agencies are subject to fluctuation. A significant number of government contracts have provisions permitting termination by the contracting government agency for convenience. If state and local budgets were to be reduced, then services we provided could become non-essential and our contracts could be terminated and future contracting opportunities for government contracts would be limited. Such an event would reduce our revenue and profitability. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks. Recently we have expanded our international operations and also continually contemplate the acquisition of companies formed and operating in foreign countries. We have approximately 17,000 employees in Mexico, India, Jamaica, Ghana, the Philippines, Guatemala, Canada, Spain, Malaysia, United Kingdom, Dominican Republic and France, as well as a number of other countries, that primarily support our commercial business process and information technology services. Our international operations and acquisitions are subject to a number of risks. These risks include the possible impact on our operations of the laws of foreign countries where we may do business including, among others, data privacy, laws regarding licensing and labor council requirements. In addition, we may experience difficulty integrating the management and operations of businesses we acquire internationally, and we may have difficulty attracting, retaining and motivating highly skilled and qualified personnel to staff key managerial positions in our ongoing international operations. Further, our international operations are subject to a number of risks related to general economic and political conditions in foreign countries where we operate, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, cultural differences, political instability, employee work stoppages or strikes and additional expenses and risks inherent in conducting operations in geographically distant locations. Our international operations may also be impacted by trade restrictions, such as tariffs and duties or other trade controls imposed by the United States or other jurisdictions, as well as other factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because of these foreign operations we are subject to regulations, such as those administered by the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”) and export control regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. Violation of these regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against our officers, and prohibitions against exporting, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Armed hostilities and terrorist attacks may negatively impact the countries in which we operate. Our operations and customers are located throughout the globe, including some politically unstable jurisdictions. Terrorist attacks and further acts of violence or war may cause major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets in which we operate. In addition, armed hostilities and acts of terrorism may directly impact our physical facilities and operations, which are located in North America, Central America, South America, Europe, Africa, Australia, Asia and the Middle East, or those of our clients. These developments subject our worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, skilled management and qualified subcontractors may have an adverse impact on our business. Because we operate in intensely competitive markets, our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel and to subcontract with qualified, competent subcontractors. If we fail to attract, train, and retain sufficient numbers of qualified engineers, technical staff and sales and marketing representatives or are unable to contract with qualified, competent subcontractors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations 12 Table of Contents will be materially and adversely affected. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents. Additionally, we may be required to increase our hiring in geographic areas outside of the United States, which could subject us to increased geopolitical and exchange rate risk. Our success also depends on the skills, experience, and performance of key members of our management team. The loss of any key employee or the loss of a key subcontractor relationship could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations and prospects. Risks associated with loans that we service may reduce our profitability and cash flow. We service (for various lenders and under various service agreements) a portfolio of approximately 2.2 million loans with an outstanding principal balance of approximately $32.5 billion as of June 30, 2007 made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, which loans are guaranteed by a federal government agency. If a loan is in default, then a claim is made upon the guarantor. If the guarantor denies the claim because of a servicing error, then under certain of the servicing agreements we may be required to purchase the loan from the lender. Upon purchase of the loan, we attempt to cure the servicing errors and either sell the loan back to the guarantor (which must occur within a specified period of time) or sell the loan on the open market to a third party. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to cure the servicing errors or sell the loan on the open market. Our reserves, which are based on historical information, may be inadequate if our servicing performance results in the requirement that we repurchase a substantial number of loans, which repurchase could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow and profitability. A disruption in utility or network services may have a negative impact on our business. Our services are dependent on other companies providing electricity and other utilities to our operating facilities, as well as network companies providing connectivity to our facilities and clients. Since key portions of our business include information technology services and systems integration, we rely on network connectivity at all times. Many of our facilities are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States where the provision of utility services, including electricity and water, may not be consistently reliable. While there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services may have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues, cash flow and profitability. Our indemnification obligations may have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our contracts, including our agreements with respect to divestitures, include various indemnification obligations. If we are required to satisfy an indemnification obligation, we may have to spend time and cost to defend and settle claims for our indemnities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and cash flow. Other Risks We have attempted to identify material risk factors currently affecting our business and company. However, additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may occur or become material. These risks could impair our business operations or adversely affect revenues, cash flow or profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 