Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business and future performance are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), interest rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that can impact the Company's business, its future performance and the forward-looking statements that it makes in this report or that it may make in the future. A Small Number of the Company's Customers Account for a Substantial Portion of Its Revenues, and Most of Its Receivables. The Loss of a Major Customer or Reduced Spending of These Service Providers Could Significantly Reduce the Company's Revenues, Profitability and Cash Flow. A few large telecommunications service providers account for a substantial portion of the Company's revenues. The telecommunications industry has recently experienced substantial consolidation, as evidenced by the mergers of Sprint and Nextel, Cingular and AT&T Wireless, SBC and AT&T, Verizon and MCI and the announced merger of AT&T and BellSouth. As service providers increase in size, it is possible that an even greater percentage of the Company's revenues will be attributable to a smaller number of large service providers going forward. Acquisition In November 2005, the Company acquired ThinkEngine Networks, Inc. ("ThinkEngine"). ThinkEngine has never made a profit and will continue to generate losses and require funding until sales of the VSR1000 product line can be increased to sufficient levels, of which there can be no assurance. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry with Many Participants. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment, competing on the basis of product offerings, technical capabilities, quality, service and pricing. Competition for new service providers as well as for new infrastructure deployments is particularly intense. The Company has a number of existing competitors, some of which are very large, with significantly greater technological and financial resources, brand recognition and established relationships with telecommunications service providers. In addition, new competitors may enter the industry as a result of shifts in technology. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Technology Drives the Company's Products and Services. If the Company Fails to Keep Pace with Technological Advances in Its Industry, or If It Pursues Technologies That Do Not Become Commercially Accepted, Customers May Not Buy Its Products or Use Its Services. The telecommunications industry uses numerous and varied technologies and large service providers often invest in several and, sometimes, incompatible technologies. The industry also demands frequent and, at times, significant technology upgrades. The Company does not have the resources to invest in all of these existing and potential technologies. As a result, the Company concentrates its resources on those technologies it believes have or will achieve substantial customer acceptance and in which it has appropriate technical expertise. However, existing products often have short product life cycles. In addition, the Company's choices for developing technologies may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products it develops or if those technologies ultimately prove to be unviable. The Company's operating results depend to a significant extent on the market acceptance of its products and its ability to enhance its existing products, to continue to introduce new products successfully and on a timely basis, and to develop new or enhance existing tools for its services offerings. The Company Needs to Attract and Retain Highly Qualified Personnel. The Company's future success is dependent on its ability to attract and retain key design engineering, sales and executive personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel, in particular, design engineers, and the Company may not be able to attract and retain engineers and other qualified personnel necessary for the development and introduction of new products or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel that may leave its employ. The Telecommunications Market Fluctuates and Is Impacted By Many Factors, Including Decisions By Service Providers Regarding Their Deployment of Technology and Their Timing of Purchases, as Well as Demand and Spending for Communications Services By Businesses and Consumers. After significant deterioration earlier this decade, the global telecommunications market stabilized in 2004 and experienced modest growth in 2005 as reflected in increased capital expenditures by service providers and growing demand for telecommunications services. Although the Company believes the overall market will continue to grow, the rate of growth could vary geographically and across different technologies, and is subject to substantial fluctuations. The specific market segment in which the Company participates may not experience the growth of other segments. In that case, the Company's results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company Is Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims, Which Could Cause It to Incur Significant Expenses or Prevent the Company from Selling Its Products. Intellectual property litigation can be costly and time-consuming and can divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. A successful claim by a third party of patent or other intellectual property infringement by the Company could compel it to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or force it to pay significant damages and could even require it to stop selling certain products. The Company Relies on Third Party Suppliers to Produce Subassemblies. The Company has outsourced the production of subassemblies and certain finished goods. If a contract manufacturer terminates its relationship with the Company or is unable to fill its orders on a timely basis, or if the Company does not accurately forecast its requirements, the Company may be unable to deliver the affected products to meet its customers' orders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 