ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We may experience quarterly and annual fluctuations in our net sales and operating results in the future, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, may cause these variations, including: • general economic uncertainties; • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products or prolonged downturns in the industries that we serve; • ability of our suppliers to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted; • timing or cancellation of customer orders and shipment scheduling; • fluctuations in our product mix; • foreign currency fluctuations; • introductions of new products and product enhancements by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; • our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • rate of market acceptance of our new products; • delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors; • our ability to control expenses; • level of capital spending of our customers; • potential obsolescence of our inventory; and • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last month of the quarter. Our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales and if sales are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall on our operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall. We also base our manufacturing on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which would result in delays in the shipment of our products. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales, particularly for our higher priced, higher margin products, can cause significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our historical operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below public market analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which would likely cause the price of our common stock to fall. In addition, over the past several years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. There has not always been a direct correlation between this volatility and the performance of particular companies subject to these stock price fluctuations. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors’ concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our stock in the future. We are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic slowdowns and related uncertainties. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could cause a slowdown in customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Unstable political, social and economic conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, as well as effectively manage supply chain relationships. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers for some of the key components and materials, including exotic materials and crystals, in our products, which make us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business. We currently purchase several key components and materials used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source 17 suppliers. Some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time. We typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders and we have no guaranteed supply arrangement with any of these suppliers. We may fail to obtain these supplies in a timely manner in the future. We may experience difficulty identifying alternative sources of supply for certain components used in our products. We would experience further delays while identifying, evaluating and testing the products of these potential alternative suppliers. Furthermore, financial or other difficulties faced by these suppliers or significant changes in demand for these components or materials could limit their availability. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. We rely exclusively on our own production capability to manufacture certain strategic components, optics and optical systems, crystals, semiconductor lasers, lasers and laser-based systems. Because we manufacture, package and test these components, products and systems at our own facilities, and such components, products and systems are not readily available from other sources, any interruption in manufacturing would adversely affect our business. In addition, our failure to achieve adequate manufacturing yields of these items at our manufacturing facilities may materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our sales volumes and decrease our costs to offset anticipated declines in the average selling prices of our products and, if we are unable to realize greater sales volumes and lower costs, our operating results may suffer. Our future success depends on the continued growth of the markets for lasers, laser systems, precision optics and related accessories, as well as our ability to identify, in advance, emerging markets for laser-based systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify, on a timely basis, new high-growth markets in the future. Moreover, we cannot assure you that new markets will develop for our products or our customers’ products, or that our technology or pricing will enable such markets to develop. Future demand for our products is uncertain and will depend to a great degree on continued technological development and the introduction of new or enhanced products. If this does not continue, sales of our products may decline and our business will be harmed. We have historically been the industry’s high quality, high priced supplier of laser systems. We have, in the past, experienced decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products. We anticipate that as competing products become more widely available, the average selling price of our products may decrease. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, our net sales will decline. In addition, to maintain our gross margins, we must continue to reduce the cost of our products. Furthermore, as average selling prices of our current products decline, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain our gross margins, our operating results could be seriously harmed, particularly if the average selling prices of our products decrease significantly. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers. Our current products address a broad range of commercial and scientific research applications in the photonics markets. We cannot assure you that the market for these applications will continue to generate significant or consistent demand for our products. Demand for our products could be significantly diminished by disrupting technologies or products that replace them or render them obsolete. Furthermore, the new and enhanced products generally continue to be smaller in size and have lower average selling prices (“ASPs”), so over time, we have to sell more units to maintain revenue levels. Over the last three fiscal years, our research and development expenses have been in the range of 11% to 13% of net sales. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers’ needs and develop products that address those needs. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and coordinate our efforts with those of our suppliers to achieve volume production rapidly. If we fail to effectively transfer production processes, develop product enhancements or introduce new products in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our net sales may be reduced and our business may be harmed. We face risks associated with our foreign sales that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, 65%, 61% and 61%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from customers outside of the Untied States. We anticipate that foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. A global economic slowdown could have a negative effect on various foreign markets in which we operate. This may cause us to reduce our presence in certain countries, which may negatively affect the overall level of business in such countries. The majority of our foreign sales occurs through our foreign sales subsidiaries and the remainder of our foreign sales result from exports to foreign distributors, resellers and customers. Our foreign operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, including: 18 • longer accounts receivable collection periods; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • certification requirements; • environmental regulations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; and • preference for locally produced products. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect the sales price of our products in foreign markets, as well as the costs and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries. While we use forward exchange contracts and other risk management techniques to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we remain exposed to the economic risks of foreign currency fluctuations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, which could adversely affect our competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that any issued patents will not be challenged by third parties. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidation of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to do one or more of the following: • stop manufacturing, selling or using our products that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, although such license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the products that use the technology. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. We do not have insurance to cover potential claims of this type. We may, in the future, initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights to protect these rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. We depend on skilled personnel to operate our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain existing or hire additional personnel when needed, our ability to develop and sell our products could be harmed. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Recruiting and retaining highly skilled personnel in certain functions continues to be difficult. At certain locations where we operate, the cost of living is extremely high and it may be difficult to retain key employees and management at a reasonable cost. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Our failure to attract additional employees and retain our existing employees could adversely affect our growth and our business. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel, any of whom may leave, which could harm our business. 19 The long sales cycles for our products may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive and increased competition could cause reduced sales levels, reduced gross margins or the loss of market share. Competition in the various photonics markets in which we provide products is very intense. We compete against a number of large companies, including Newport Corporation; Excel Technology, Inc.; JDS Uniphase Corp.; Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc.; and Cymer, Inc., as well as other smaller companies. Some of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Some of our competitors that have more cash reserves are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. Any of these acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. Any business combinations or mergers among our competitors, forming larger competitors with greater resources, could result in increased competition, price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional competitors may enter the market and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We may encounter potential customers that, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. Some of our laser systems are complex in design and may contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve such yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on certain of our product sales, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of product return rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: • loss of customers; • increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; • damage to our brand reputation; • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and engineering resources; and • legal actions by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to accurately forecast component and material requirements for our products, we could incur additional costs and incur significant delays in shipments, which could result in loss of customers. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders and material requirements planning systems to determine our product 20 requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. We depend on our suppliers for most of our product components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. For substantial increases in our sales levels, some of our suppliers may need at least six months lead-time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our net sales, business or operating results. Our increased reliance on contract manufacturing may adversely impact our financial results and operations. Our manufacturing strategy includes relying heavily on sourcing from contract manufacturers, including some performed at international sites located in Asia. Our ability to resume internal manufacturing operations for certain products in a timely manner has been eliminated. The cost, quality, performance and availability of contract manufacturing operations are and will be essential to the successful production and sale of many of our products. The inability of any contract manufacturer to meet our cost, quality, performance and availability standards could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to provide contract manufacturers with product volumes that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of the inventory. Also, our ability to control the quality of products produced by contract manufacturers may be limited and quality issues may not be resolved in a timely manner, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. The inability to continue to reduce expenses and contain our costs could harm our operating results. We are continuing efforts to reduce our expense structure. Additional measures to contain costs and reduce expenses may be undertaken if revenues and market conditions do not continue to improve. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our revenues, such as our inability to accurately forecast business activities or deterioration of our revenues. If we are unable to continue to reduce expenses and contain our costs, this could harm our operating results. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in evolving markets requires an effective planning and management process. We continue to expand the scope of our operations domestically and internationally. The growth in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically-dispersed operations, has placed, and our anticipated growth in future operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources. The failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We have in the past made strategic acquisitions of other corporations, and we continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary companies, products and technologies. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • pay cash; • incur debt; • assume liabilities; or • incur expenses related to in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill and amortization. These purchases also involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the purchased organizations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, which may harm our business. 21 We use standard laboratory and manufacturing materials that could be considered hazardous and we could be liable for any damage or liability resulting from accidental environmental contamination or injury. Although most of our products do not incorporate hazardous or toxic materials and chemicals, some of the gases used in our excimer lasers and some of the liquid dyes used in some of our scientific laser products are highly toxic. In addition, our operations involve the use of standard laboratory and manufacturing materials that could be considered hazardous. Also, if a facility fire were to occur at our Tampere, Finland, site and spread to a reactor used to grow semiconductor wafers, it could release highly toxic emissions. We believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with all federal, state and offshore regulations and standards; however, the risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury from such materials cannot be entirely eliminated. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business. The adoption of certain environmental regulations will require us to redesign some of our products if we are to continue to be able to sell them in Europe. The European Union has enacted The Restriction on Hazardous Substances in Electronic Equipment (“ROHS”) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directives that will require us to redesign some of our products if we are to continue selling them in Europe. We have launched a major program to bring our products into compliance with ROHS and WEEE, but there can be no guarantee that we will be successful. Failure to comply can result in the inability to sell non-compliant products into Europe, a market currently accounting for approximately one-third of our revenues, which would have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. Private companies outside of Europe, most notably in Japan, are undertaking similar “green initiatives.” Noncompliance would result in similar risks. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss from fire, flood, earthquake or terrorist activity. A substantial portion of our research and development activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in Santa Clara, California, an area with a history of seismic events. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. While we have obtained insurance to cover most potential losses, after reviewing the costs and limitations associated with earthquake insurance, we have decided not to procure such insurance. We believe that this decision is consistent with decisions reached by numerous other companies located nearby. We cannot assure you that our existing insurance coverage will be adequate against all other possible losses. Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law, our Common Shares Rights Plan and our Change-of-Control Severance Plan may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent or delay a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition or make removal of incumbent directors or officers more difficult. These provisions may discourage takeover attempts and bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price. These provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without stockholder approval; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless prior approval of our board of directors is obtained or as otherwise provided. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us without obtaining the prior approval of our board of directors, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we have adopted a change of control severance plan, which provides for the payment of a cash severance benefit to each eligible employee based on the employee’s position. If a change of control occurs, our successor or acquirer will be required to assume and agree to perform all of our obligations under the change of control severance plan. Our common shares rights agreement permits the holders of rights to purchase shares of our common stock to exercise the stock purchase 22 rights following an acquisition of or merger by us with another corporation or entity, following a sale of 50% or more of our consolidated assets or earning power, or the acquisition by an individual or entity of 20% or more of our common stock. Our successor or acquirer is required to assume all of our obligations and duties under the common shares rights agreement, including in certain circumstances the issuance of shares of its capital stock upon exercise of the stock purchase rights. The existence of our common shares rights agreement may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control and, as a consequence, may discourage potential acquirers from making tender offers for our shares. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect future results. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. For example, recent U.S. legislation governing taxation of extraterritorial income (“ETI”) repealed certain export subsidies that were prohibited by the World Trade Organization and enacted different tax provisions. These new tax provisions are not expected to fully offset the loss of the repealed tax provisions and, as a result, our U.S. tax liability may increase. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethics, corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. In addition, it has become more difficult and could be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Risks related to our industry Our market is unpredictable and characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving standards, and, if we fail to address changing market conditions, our business and operating results will be harmed. The photonics industry is characterized by extensive research and development, rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Because this market is subject to rapid change, it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Our success in generating revenues in this market will depend on, among other things: • maintaining and enhancing our relationships with our customers; • the education of potential end-user customers about the benefits of lasers, laser systems and precision optics; and • our ability to accurately predict and develop our products to meet industry standards. For our fiscal years ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our research and development costs were $57.5 million (11% of net sales), $62.7 million (13% of net sales) and $51.0 million (13% of net sales), respectively. We cannot assure you that our expenditures for research and development will result in the introduction of new products or, if such products are introduced, that those products will 23 achieve sufficient market acceptance. Our failure to address rapid technological changes in our markets could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Continued volatility in the semiconductor manufacturing industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales depend in part on the demand for our products by semiconductor equipment companies. The semiconductor market has historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand, which have often severely affected the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including laser-based tools and systems. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond effectively to these cycles. The continuing uncertainty in this market severely limits our ability to predict our business prospects or financial results in this market. During industry downturns, our revenues from this market will decline suddenly and significantly. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. In addition, due to the relatively long manufacturing lead times for some of the systems and, subsystems we sell to this market, we may incur expenditures or purchase raw materials or components for products we cannot sell. Accordingly, downturns in the semiconductor capital equipment market may materially harm our operating results. Conversely, when upturns in this market occur, we must be able to rapidly and effectively increase our manufacturing capacity to meet increases in customer demand that may be extremely rapid, and if we fail to do so we may lose business to our competitors and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 