Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2005. The following risk factors are as of the date of this report and are not necessarily risk factors as of the December 31, 2005 financial statements. Safe Harbor for Forward-looking Statements. Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this document may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may”, “should”, “expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “predicts”, “potential”, “continue”, “projects”, “intends”, “prospects”, “priorities”, or the negative of such terms or similar terminology. These factors may cause our actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements. In addition to risk factors otherwise set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Our sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to develop new products that appeal to customers and end users. We compete in markets characterized by continual technological change, product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. The technological and curriculum life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. The demand for some of our more mature products and services has begun to migrate to other products and services. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new products and invest in existing products to keep them relevant in the market place. Changes in funding for public schools could cause the demand for our products to decrease. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state, and local government funding. In addition, the school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities, or general reductions in funding could delay or reduce our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools could also cause those institutions to be more resistant to price increases and could slow investments in educational products which could harm our business. 12 The Company’s business may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. While in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislative mandates such as No Child Left Behind (“NCLB”) and Reading First, future changes in the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to state budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. We face intense competition and may not be able to successfully attract and retain customers. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. In our PQED segment, we compete with Scholastic, SRA/McGraw-Hill, Hampton-Brown, Scientific Learning Corp., Soar to Success, Cambium Learning, Harcourt Achieve which is a division of Reed Elsevier, Scott Foresman which is a division of Pearson, and Houghton Mifflin which is part of Riverdeep. Many of our current and potential future competitors may have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, experience, and larger customer bases than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, have more favorable access to suppliers and devote greater resources to the development and sale of their products. Any of the above results could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and harm our business. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate, allowing others to use our technologies and thereby reduce our ability to compete. We regard certain of the technology underlying our services and products as proprietary, such as our search and retrieval and database management features. The steps that we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or to prevent third parties from developing similar technology independently. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We might also be 13 prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert management attention from other business concerns. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and our key personnel, especially those holding multiple positions, may not be able to fulfill their roles effectively if we become understaffed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, creative, and technical personnel. Members of our senior management team bring substantial industry and management experience to our planning and execution. If they or other key employees were to leave us, and we were unable to find a qualified replacement, our business could be harmed. We could experience system failures, software errors or capacity constraints, any of which would cause interruptions in our delivery of electronic content to customers and ultimately may cause us to lose customers. Any delays or failures in the systems or errors in the software that we use for the technology based component of our products which include assessment and reporting tools would harm our business. We have occasionally suffered failures of the computer and telecommunication systems that we use to deliver our electronic content to customers. The growth of our customer base, as well as the number of sites we provide, may strain our systems in the future. The systems we currently use to deliver our services to customers (except for external telecommunications systems) are located in our facilities in Dallas, Texas, Charlottesville, Virginia and Tucson, Arizona. Although we maintain property insurance, claims for any system failure could exceed our coverage. In addition, our products could be affected by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we could have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or software could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failure or problem, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation and thus harm our business. Our systems face security risks, and our customers have concerns about their privacy. Our systems and websites may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers’ information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Unauthorized access to, as well as denial of, various Internet and online services has 14 occurred, and will likely occur again. Any security breach related to our websites could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We may also incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. Further, to maintain these security measures, we will be required to monitor our customers’ access to our websites which may cause disruption to our customers’ use of our systems and websites. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business. Unless we maintain a strong brand identity, our business may not grow as anticipated. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to attracting and retaining customers. Our success in growing brand awareness will depend in part on our ability to continually provide information access technology that enhances the learning process. Some of these entities may offer goods and services similar to those offered by us, which may diminish the value of our brand. In addition, some of our brand names are new or have changed, and we may not have any success in maintaining and growing our brand equity. Our operating results continue to fluctuate, and a revenue or earnings shortfall in a particular quarter could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Variations in our operating results occur from time to time as a result of many factors, such as the timing and amount of customers’ expenditures, our product mix, new product introductions, and general economic conditions. Our sales cycles are relatively long and depend on factors such as the size of customer orders and the terms of subscription agreements. Consequently, it is difficult to predict if and when we will receive a customer order. Because a high percentage of our expenses are fixed, the timing of customer orders can cause variations in quarterly operating results. Certain customers’ buying patterns and funding availability generally cause our sales and cash flow to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of the year. As a result of the difficulty in forecasting our quarterly revenues, our operating results for a quarter may fall below securities analysts’ expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to fall abruptly and significantly. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly in the recent past. In addition, market prices for securities of companies in our industries have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Often the volatility in our common stock price is unrelated to our operating performance. As a result of these fluctuations in the price of our common stock, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price you pay for it. 15 On March 28, 2007, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) suspended the trading of the Company’s securities and, thereafter, the common stock of the Company began being quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the ticker symbol PQES.PK. On July 2, 2007, consistent with its corporate name change, the Company began being quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the ticker symbol VLCY.PK. We are a party to a number of matters of civil litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The Company is involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Company may face exposure from parties claiming damages as a result of the litigation that has occurred as a result of the restatement. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company has identified numerous material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the Company’s internal controls assessment required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which led to the discovery of several material irregularities in its accounting, the Company has identified a number of control deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting. Many of these control deficiencies have been classified as material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that in the aggregate constitute material weaknesses. A material weakness is a control deficiency that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by employees in the normal course of their assigned functions. Based on the material weaknesses identified, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005. Since we have not fully remediated all of the factors that caused the material weaknesses, some internal controls may continue to be ineffective in future periods. As of the end of the period covered in this Form 10-K, management performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s periodic reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management to allow timely decisions regarding disclosures. Based on the evaluation and the identification of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting described above, as well as the Company’s inability to file this Form 10-K within the statutory time period, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2005. 16 As of the filing of this Form 10-K, the Company has implemented changes in its internal control over financial reporting to remediate certain but not all of the identified control deficiencies. The Company’s continuing remediation efforts are subject to its internal control assessment, testing and evaluation processes. While these efforts continue, the Company will rely on additional substantive procedures and other measures as needed to assist it with meeting the objectives otherwise fulfilled by an effective control environment. There can be no assurance that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or its disclosure controls and procedures will prevent future error or fraud in connection with its financial statements. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” for additional information. The Company expects to continue to incur significant expenses related to its internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements. The Company has devoted substantial internal and external resources to the restatement of its financial statements and related matters. As a result of these efforts, along with efforts to complete its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company expects that it will incur significant incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor services, financial and other consulting services, legal services. While the Company does not expect fees and expenses relating to the preparation of its financial results for future periods to remain at this level, the Company expects that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees and expenses in this category for the next year. These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by the Company’s management towards addressing these weaknesses, could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis in the future could be adversely affected by our weaknesses in internal controls. If we are unable to substantially improve our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis will continue to be adversely affected. Our ability to access the capital markets is also subject to our timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and our recent failure to file certain reports on a timely basis limits our ability to access the capital markets using a short-form registration. 17 Any adverse outcome of the investigation currently being conducted by the SEC could have a material adverse impact on us, on the trading prices of our securities, and on our ability to access the capital markets. We are cooperating with the investigation currently being conducted by the SEC. We cannot currently predict the outcome of this investigation, which could be material. Nor can we predict whether any additional investigation(s) will be commenced or, if so, the impact or outcome of any such additional investigation(s). Until this existing investigation and any additional investigations that may arise in connection with the historical conduct of the business are resolved, the trading prices of our securities may be adversely affected, and it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness or other obligations. If an unfavorable result occurs in any such investigation, we could be required to pay civil and/or criminal fines or penalties, or be subjected to other types of sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The trading prices for our securities or our ability to access the capital markets and our business and financial condition could be further materially adversely affected. The impact of ongoing purported securities class action, derivative and insurance-related litigation may be material. We are also subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory action in connection with the restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The potential liability from any such litigation or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. In connection with the restatements of our Consolidated Financial Statements described herein, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits, including purported class action and stockholder derivative suits. We cannot currently predict the impact or outcome of these litigations, which could be material. The continuation and outcome of these lawsuits and related ongoing investigations, as well as the initiation of similar suits and investigations, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the restatements of our Consolidated Financial Statements described herein, we could become subject to additional purported class action, derivative or other securities litigation. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any additional litigation or investigation having been commenced against us related to these matters, but we cannot predict whether any such litigation or regulatory investigation will be commenced or, if it is, the outcome of any such litigation or investigation. The initiation of any additional securities litigation or investigations, together with the lawsuits and investigations described above, may also harm our business and financial condition. Until the existing litigation and regulatory investigations, any additional litigation or regulatory investigation, and any claims or issues that may arise in connection with the historical conduct of the business are resolved, it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness or other obligations. If an unfavorable result occurred in any such action, our business and financial condition could be further adversely affected. 18 We could experience a material adverse result if our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover losses that may occur as a result of the litigation. The Company has received a reservation of rights notice from its insurance carriers regarding coverage under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policies. If an adverse judgment is rendered or a settlement is reached in excess of the insurance coverage limits, the Company may experience a material adverse impact on its financial condition. For a further description of the nature and status of these legal proceedings, see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The information set forth in Item 3 of this report regarding SEC proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. 