Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 2007. The following risk factors are as of the date of this report and are not necessarily risk factors as of the December 29, 2007 financial statements. In addition to risk factors otherwise set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Our sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to develop new products that appeal to customers and end users. We compete in markets characterized by continual change, product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. The technological and curriculum life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. The demand for some of our more mature products and services has begun to migrate to other products and services. Our business may be harmed if we are not able to develop new products and invest in existing products to keep them relevant in the market place. Changes in funding for public schools could cause the demand for our products to decrease. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state, and local government funding. In addition, the school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities, or general reductions in funding could delay or reduce our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools could also cause those institutions to be more resistant to price increases and could slow investments in educational products which could harm our business. 12 The Company’s business may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process, changes in government leadership, emergence of other priorities, and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. While in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislation such as No Child Left Behind and Reading First, recent reductions in Reading First appropriations have caused some school districts to reduce spending on our products. Reductions in funding for public schools may harm our recurring and new business if our customers are not able to find and obtain alternative sources of funding. We face intense competition and may not be able to successfully attract and retain customers. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Our VED segment competes with both basal suppliers such as Houghton Mifflin/Harcourt (Riverdeep), Scott Foresman (Pearson), and McGraw-Hill, who offer, often as part of their core reading programs, intervention products, as well as supplemental suppliers including Cambium Learning, Scientific Learning, and Scholastic. Many of our current and potential future competitors may have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, experience, and larger customer bases than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, have more favorable access to suppliers and devote greater resources to the development and sale of their products. Any of the above results could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and harm our business. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate, allowing others to use our technologies and thereby reduce our ability to compete. We regard certain of the technology underlying our services and products as proprietary and we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance the steps we take to protect our proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or to prevent third parties from developing similar technology independently. 13 We license from third parties certain technology content and that content may not continue to be available to us. We also license from third parties certain technology content or services upon which we rely to deliver our products and services to our customers. This technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, we may face claims from persons who claim that their licensed technologies infringe upon or violate those persons’ proprietary rights. These types of claims, regardless of the outcome, may be costly to defend and may divert our management’s efforts and resources. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We might also be prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert management attention from other business concerns. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and our key personnel, especially those holding multiple positions, may not be able to fulfill their roles effectively if we become understaffed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, creative, and technical personnel. Members of our senior management team bring substantial industry and management experience to our planning and execution. If they or other key employees were to leave us, and we were unable to find qualified replacements, our business could be harmed. 14 We use the Internet extensively, and federal or state governments may adopt laws or regulations that could expose us to substantial liability. Due to the increasing usage of the Internet, federal and state governments may adopt laws or regulations regarding commercial online services, the Internet, user privacy, intellectual property rights, content regulation, and taxation. Laws and regulations directly applicable to online commerce or Internet communications are becoming more prevalent and could expose us to substantial liability. For example, certain U.S. laws, such as the federal Digital Millennium Copyright Act and various federal laws aimed at protecting children and limiting the content made available to them, could expose us to substantial liability. Furthermore, various proposals at the federal, state, and local level could impose additional taxes on internet sales. These laws, regulations, and proposals could decrease Internet commerce and other Internet uses and adversely affect the success of our online products and business. We could experience system failures, software errors or capacity constraints, any of which would cause interruptions in our delivery of electronic content to customers and ultimately may cause us to lose customers. Any delays or failures in the systems or errors in the software that we use for the technology based component of our products which include assessment and reporting tools could harm our business. We have occasionally suffered failures of the computer and telecommunication systems that we use to deliver electronic content to customers. The growth of our customer base, as well as the number of sites we provide, may strain our systems in the future. The systems we currently use to deliver our services to customers (except for external telecommunications systems) are located in our facilities in Dallas, Texas, Charlottesville, Virginia and Tucson, Arizona as well as in a third party data center in Allen, Texas. Although we maintain property insurance, claims for any system failure could exceed our coverage. In addition, our products could be affected by failures associated with third party hosting providers or by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we could have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or software could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failure or problem, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation and thus harm our business. 15 Our systems face security risks and our customers have concerns about their privacy. Our systems and websites may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers’ information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Unauthorized access to, as well as denial of, various internet and online services has occurred, and will likely occur again. Any security breach related to our websites could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We may also incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. Further, to maintain these security measures, we are required to monitor our customers’ access to our websites which may cause disruption to our customers’ use of our systems and websites. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business. We have a single distribution center and could experience significant disruption of business and ultimately lose customers in the event it was damaged or destroyed. The Company stores and distributes the majority of its printed materials through a single warehouse in Dallas, Texas. In the event that warehouse was damaged or destroyed, the Company would be delayed in responding to customer requests. Customers often purchase materials very close to the school year and such delivery delays could cause our customers to turn to competitors for products they need immediately. While the Company maintains adequate property insurance, the loss of customers could have a long term, detrimental impact on our reputation and business. Our business may not grow as anticipated if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to attracting and retaining customers. Our success in growing brand awareness will depend in part on our ability to continually provide quality programs and solutions that enhance the learning process. Other entities may offer goods and services similar to those offered by us, which may diminish the value of our brand. In addition, some of our brand names are new or have changed, and we may not have success in maintaining and growing our brand equity. 16 Our operating results continue to fluctuate, and a revenue or earnings shortfall in a particular quarter could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Variations in our operating results occur from time to time as a result of many factors, such as the timing and amount of customers’ expenditures, our product mix, new product introductions, and general economic conditions. Our sales cycles are relatively long and depend on factors such as the size of customer orders and the terms of subscription agreements. Consequently, it is difficult to predict if and when we will receive a customer order. Because a high percentage of our expenses are fixed, the timing of customer orders can cause variations in quarterly operating results. Certain customers’ buying patterns and funding availability generally cause our sales and cash flow to be lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. As a result of the difficulty in forecasting our quarterly revenues, our operating results for a quarter may fall below investors’ expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to fall abruptly and significantly. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly in the recent past. In addition, market prices for securities of companies in our industry have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Often the volatility in our common stock price is unrelated to our operating performance. As a result of these fluctuations in the price of our common stock, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price you pay for it. On March 28, 2007, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) suspended the trading of the Company’s securities and, thereafter, the common stock of the Company began being quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the ticker symbol PQES.PK. On July 2, 2007, consistent with its corporate name change, the Company began being quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the ticker symbol VLCY.PK. 17 The Company could incur additional and unexpected expense related to its internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of its financial statements. During 2006, 2007 and continuing into 2008, the Company has devoted substantial internal and external resources to the restatement of its 2005 and prior financial statements and filing of its 2006 and 2007 financial statements. As a result of these efforts, along with efforts to complete its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company incurred significant incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor services, financial and other consulting services, and legal services. While the Company does not expect fees and expenses relating to the preparation of its financial results for future periods to remain at this level, the Company expects that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees and expenses through the end of 2008. These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by the Company’s management towards addressing these weaknesses, could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC could limit our ability to access capital markets. We did not file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis during fiscal years 2005, 2006, or 2007. Our ability to access the capital markets is subject to our timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and our failure to file certain reports on a timely basis limits our ability to access the capital markets using a short-form registration. We are a party to a number of matters of civil litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The Company is involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Company may face exposure from parties claiming damages as a result of the restatement. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 18 The impact of ongoing securities class action, derivative and insurance-related litigation may be material. We are also subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory action in connection with the restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the restatements of our Consolidated Financial Statements described in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits, including class action and shareholder derivative suits. We cannot currently predict the impact or outcome of these litigations, which could be material. The continuation and outcome of these lawsuits and related ongoing investigations, as well as the initiation of similar suits and investigations, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements described in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we could become subject to additional class action, derivative or other securities litigation. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any additional litigation or investigation having been commenced against us related to these matters, but we cannot predict whether any such litigation or regulatory investigation will be commenced or, if it is, the outcome of any such litigation or investigation. The initiation of any additional securities litigation or investigations, together with the lawsuits and investigations described above, may also harm our business and financial condition. Until the existing litigation and regulatory investigations, any additional litigation or regulatory investigation, and any claims or issues that may arise in connection with the historical conduct of the business are resolved, it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness or other obligations. If an unfavorable result occurred in any such action, our business and financial condition could be further adversely affected. Recent developments in the commercial credit markets and education funding environment may adversely affect the Company’s ability to pursue strategic alternatives, including the possible sale of the Company. Recently, the commercial credit markets in the U.S. have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that could have an adverse impact on our ability to complete any of the strategic alternatives the Company is considering, including the possible sale of the Company. Potential acquirers of the Company may not be able to secure sufficient financing resources to complete a possible transaction. Such restrictions may limit the number of potential purchasers and could reduce the possible 19 purchase price for the Company. Additionally, recent changes in economic conditions could reduce funds available to states and schools for education spending and recent changes in legislation reducing Reading First funding effective 2008 could have an adverse impact on the value of the Company and our ability to complete any of the strategic alternatives the Company is considering, including the possible sale of the Company. Our insurance coverage could be insufficient to cover losses we may incur as a result of litigation. The Company has received a reservation of rights notice from its insurance carriers regarding coverage under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policies and there can be no assurance that the carriers will cover the costs of defense or any judgment or settlement in whole or in part. If an adverse judgment is rendered or a settlement is reached in excess of the insurance coverage limits, the Company may experience a material adverse impact on its financial condition. For a further description of the nature and status of these legal proceedings, see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. Our insurance providers may be unable to perform under their obligations. We have insurance receivables of $16.2 million on our balance sheet at December 29, 2007, including $15 million for the settlement of litigation related to the restatement. Although we believe our insurance providers are creditworthy and that we will collect all amounts owed to us, the failure of these institutions to perform under their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The information set forth in Item 3 of this report regarding SEC proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. 20 