Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Cohu, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The semiconductor industry we serve is highly volatile and unpredictable. Visibility into our markets is limited. Our operating results are substantially dependent on our semiconductor equipment business. This capital equipment business is in turn highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment may also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns. Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory write-offs and reserve requirements. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.7 million, $4.4 million, and $6.2 million, respectively, primarily as a result of changes in customer forecasts. 8 Table of Contents The semiconductor equipment industry in general and the test handler market in particular, is highly competitive. The semiconductor test handler industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world. The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has an inordinately large number of participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures. Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings. In addition, there are emerging semiconductor equipment companies that provide or may provide innovative technology incorporated in products that may compete successfully against our products. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities. Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, or disputes over rights to use certain intellectual property or technology could result in a loss of our competitive position and reduced sales of, or margins on our existing products. We believe that competitive conditions in the semiconductor test handler market have intensified over the last several years. This intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products. If we are unable to reduce the cost of our existing products and successfully introduce new lower cost products we expect these competitive conditions to negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future. Semiconductor equipment is subject to rapid technological change, product introductions and transitions may result in inventory write-offs and our new product development involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Semiconductor equipment and processes are subject to rapid technological change. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance existing products and develop new products with improved performance capabilities. We expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development and must manage product transitions successfully, as introductions of new products, including the products obtained in our acquisitions, may adversely impact sales and/or margins of existing products. In addition, the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers, the migration to new semiconductor testing methodologies and the custom nature of our inventory parts increases the risk that our established products and related inventory may become obsolete, resulting in significant excess and obsolete inventory exposure. This increased exposure resulted in significant charges to operations during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 25, 2010. Future inventory write-offs and increased inventory reserve requirements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks include potential problems in meeting customer acceptance and performance requirements, integration of the equipment with other suppliers’ equipment and the customers’ manufacturing processes, transitioning from product development to volume manufacturing and the ability of the equipment to satisfy the semiconductor industry’s constantly evolving needs and achieve commercial acceptance at prices that produce satisfactory profit margins. The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes. We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating. As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling and burn-in test equipment is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk. In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes. Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that are capable of achieving broad market acceptance. As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance. Failure to accurately assess customer requirements and market trends for new semiconductor test products may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common. We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment. In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, our after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products. Future technologies, processes and product developments may render our current or future product offerings obsolete and we might not be able to develop, introduce and successfully manufacture new products or make enhancements to our existing products in a timely manner to satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance. Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products. Global economic conditions may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our operations and financial results depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing, would adversely affect our product sales and revenues and therefore harm our business and operating results. We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of the economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery. A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales. A small number of customers historically have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. In the year ended December 25, 2010, two customers of the semiconductor equipment segment each represented more than 10% of our consolidated net sales and, combined, they accounted for 40% (41% in 2009, and 45% in 2008) of our net sales. During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from each of these and other significant customers has varied greatly. Such variations are due to changes in the customers’ business and their purchase of products from our competitors. It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate. No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers. Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders by these or other significant customers as a result of competitive products, market conditions, outsourcing final semiconductor test to test subcontractors that are not our customers or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers is likely to cause significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results. We do not participate in the DRAM test handler market. Pick-and-place handlers used in DRAM applications account for a significant portion of the worldwide test handler market. We do not participate in the DRAM market segment; therefore our total available sales market is limited. If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and to determine appropriate solutions. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operating results. 10 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure. The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes volatile changes in demand for its products. Changes in product demand result from a number of factors including the semiconductor industry’s continually changing and unpredictable capacity requirements and changes in integrated circuit design and packaging. Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment have a significant impact on our operations. Typically, we reduce and increase our workforce, particularly in manufacturing, based on customer demand for our products. These changes in workforce levels place enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure since newly hired personnel rarely possess the expertise and level of experience of current employees. Additionally, these transitions divert management time and attention from other activities and adversely impact employee morale. We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce. The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements. The inability to meet such requirements will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego, California area, where the majority of our personnel are located, is very high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers. Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with United States export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. 11 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. We are a global corporation with offices and subsidiaries in certain foreign locations to support our sales and services to the global semiconductor industry and, as such, we face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Certain aspects inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • longer payment cycles; • local political and economic conditions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which can affect demand and increase our costs. Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We utilize contract manufacturers and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. Our reliance on contract manufacturers gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, including limited control over capacity, late delivery, quality and costs. In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers may increase the complexity of our supply chain management. We cannot be certain that existing or future contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or to our quality and performance specifications. If our contract manufacturers are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected. Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations. We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • failure to commercialize purchased technology; and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods. Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 25, 2010 we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $58.5 million and $26.5 million, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Third parties may violate our proprietary rights or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Any of our proprietary rights may expire due to patent life, or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, from time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers. The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia. Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over U.S. suppliers, including us. These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations. In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers. The occurrence of natural disasters in Asia and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. Our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have a location in the Philippines which fabricates certain component parts used in our products. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economies. A significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, and do not presently have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would suffer. Furthermore, we have customers throughout the Middle East and terrorist attacks or other threats in this region may cause geopolitical instability which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial and operating results may vary and may fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers; • inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements; • inventory writedowns; • inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and • intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, from time to time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors in general. This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. 13 Table of Contents We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price. A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. During the last three years the price of our common stock has ranged from $7.00 to $20.52. The price of our stock may be more volatile than the stock of other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable and cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog making earnings predictability difficult and our relatively low daily stock trading volume. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 