Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Cohu, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to the Industries in Which We Compete and Our Business The semiconductor industry we serve is highly volatile and unpredictable. Visibility into our markets is limited. Our operating results are substantially dependent on our semiconductor equipment business. This capital equipment business is in turn highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment may also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns, such as those experienced in 2001, 2002, 2003 and during the third and fourth quarters of 2004. Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory write-offs and reserve requirements. In the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, we recorded pretax inventory-related charges of approximately $6.2 million, $5.8 million, $4.6 million, respectively, primarily as a result of changes in customer forecasts. A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales. A relatively small number of customers historically have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. In the year ended December 31, 2005, three customers of the semiconductor equipment segment accounted for 63% (54% in 2004, and 58% in 2003) of our net sales. During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from each of these and other significant customers has varied greatly. Such variations are due to changes in the customers’ business and their purchase of products from our competitors. It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate. No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers. Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders by these or other significant customers as a result of competitive products, market conditions, outsourcing final semiconductor test to test subcontractors that are not our customers or other factors, would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers may cause significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results. The semiconductor equipment industry in general and the test handler market in particular, is highly competitive. The semiconductor test handler industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world. The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has an inordinately large number of participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures. Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers. The Japanese and Korean markets for test handling equipment are large and represent a significant percentage of the worldwide market. During the last five years we have had only limited sales to Japanese and Korean customers who have historically purchased test handling equipment from Asian suppliers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, 8 Table of Contents manufacturing and customer support capabilities and offer more extensive product offerings than Cohu. In addition, there are emerging semiconductor equipment companies that provide or may provide innovative technology incorporated in products that may compete favorably against our products. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities. Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, or disputes over rights to use certain intellectual property or technology could result in a loss of our competitive position and reduced sales of, or margins on our existing products. We believe that competitive conditions in the semiconductor test handler market have intensified over the last several years. This intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products. If we are unable to reduce the cost of our existing products and successfully introduce new lower cost products we expect these competitive conditions to negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future. Semiconductor equipment is subject to rapid technological change, product introductions and transitions may result in inventory write-offs and our new product development involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Semiconductor equipment and processes are subject to rapid technological change. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance existing products and develop new products with improved performance capabilities. We expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development and must manage product transitions successfully, as introductions of new products, including our Delta EDGE™ handler, may adversely impact sales and/or margins of existing products. In addition, the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers, the migration to new semiconductor test handling methodologies and the custom nature of our inventory parts increases the risk that our established products and related inventory may become obsolete, resulting in significant excess and obsolete inventory exposure. This increased exposure resulted in significant charges to operations during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. Future inventory write-offs and increased inventory reserve requirements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor test handling equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks include potential problems in meeting customer acceptance and performance requirements, integration of the test handler with other suppliers’ equipment and the customers’ manufacturing processes, transitioning from product development to volume manufacturing and the ability of the equipment to satisfy the semiconductor industry’s constantly evolving needs and achieve commercial acceptance at prices that produce satisfactory profit margins. The design and development of new test handling equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes. We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating. As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of new integrated circuit test handling equipment is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk. In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes. Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard semiconductor test handler products that are capable of achieving broad market acceptance. As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future test handler requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance. Failure to accurately assess customer requirements and market trends for new semiconductor test handler products may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common. We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new test handlers. In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, our after sale support and warranty costs have been significantly higher with new test handlers than with our established products. Future technologies, processes and product developments may render our current or future product offerings obsolete and we might not be able to develop, introduce and successfully manufacture new products or make enhancements to our existing products in a timely manner to satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance. Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products. 9 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • failure to commercialize purchased technology; and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods. Additionally, such acquisitions or investments may result in immediate charges to operating results. Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have taken remedial measures to address previous slowdowns in the semiconductor equipment industry that may affect our ability to be competitive. In the past, we have taken remedial measures to address the slowdown in the market for our products. In particular, we reduced our workforce, delayed salary increases, reduced senior executives’ pay, implemented furloughs, reduced expense budgets and announced facility consolidations including Delta Design’s Columbus, Ohio and Littleton, Massachusetts operations into our Poway, California facility. Each of these measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products and making it more difficult for us to respond to our customer’s needs. Our backlog is limited and may not accurately reflect future business activity. Our order backlog has historically represented approximately three months of revenue and as a result our visibility of future business activity is limited. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules, cancellation of orders, potential delays in product shipments, difficulties in obtaining inventory parts from suppliers, failure to satisfy customer acceptance requirements and the inability to recognize revenue under accounting requirements, our backlog at any point in time may not be representative of sales in any future period. Furthermore, all orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer with limited penalty. A reduction in backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our backlog at December 31, 2005, may not be a reliable indicator of revenues in future periods due to delayed delivery dates or customer requested changes to delivery schedules, order cancellations and delays in recognizing revenue due to accounting requirements. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure. The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes volatile changes in demand for its products. Changes in product demand result from a number of factors including the semiconductor industry’s continually changing and unpredictable capacity requirements and changes in integrated circuit design and packaging. Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment have a significant impact on our operations. Typically, we reduce and increase our workforce, particularly in manufacturing, based on customer demand for our products. These changes in workforce levels place enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure since newly hired personnel rarely possess the expertise and level of experience of current employees. Additionally, these transitions divert management time and attention from other activities and adversely impact employee morale. We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce. The volatility in 10 Table of Contents headcount and business levels, combined with the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements. The inability to meet such requirements will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. We do not participate in the gravity-feed and DRAM test handler markets. Pick-and-place handlers used in DRAM applications account for a significant portion of the worldwide test handler market and our market share in the DRAM segment is negligible. In addition, gravity-feed test handlers are used in numerous non DRAM applications and continue to represent a significant portion of the worldwide test handler market. Because we do not participate in the DRAM and/or gravity-feed market segments, our total available sales market is limited. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. We are a global corporation with offices and subsidiaries around the world to support our sales and services to the global semiconductor industry and, as such, we face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Certain aspects inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • longer payment cycles; • local political and economic conditions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which can affect demand and increase our costs. Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations. We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key suppliers. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of the stockholders. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, legal risks and stock repurchases. 11 Table of Contents Third parties may violate our proprietary rights or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Any of our proprietary rights may expire due to patent life, or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and certain of these patent rights are licensed from third parties and we may not be able to negotiate extensions of any such licenses that have or may expire and these rights may cease to provide significant competitive advantages. In addition, from time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 75.4% of our total net sales were exported to foreign countries, including 85.4% of the sales in the semiconductor equipment segment. The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia. Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over U.S. suppliers, including us. These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations. In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers. The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. Certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, the cost of living in San Diego, California, where the majority of our personnel are located, is very high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Our non-semiconductor equipment businesses have experienced little or no growth and have generated significant losses. We develop, manufacture and sell products used in closed circuit television, metal detection and microwave communications applications. These products are sold in highly competitive markets and many competitors are segments of large, diversified companies with substantially greater financial, engineering, marketing, manufacturing and customer support capabilities than Cohu. In addition, there are smaller companies that provide or may provide innovative technology in products that may compete favorably against our own products. We have seen a significant decline in the operating results of these businesses over the last several years with increasing losses and the future prospects for certain of these businesses remain uncertain. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully in these businesses. New accounting rules will impact our future operating results. A change in accounting standards or a change in existing taxation rules can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 12 Table of Contents For example, under Statement No. 123R, in 2006, we will be required to account for equity under our stock plans as a compensation expense and our net income and net income per share will be significantly reduced. Currently, we calculate compensation expense and disclose the impact on net income and net income per share, as well as the impact of all stock-based compensation expense in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements. Statement No. 123R requires that we expense share-based payment awards given to employees, including shares issued under employee stock purchase plans and stock options, as compensation cost. As a result, our adoption of the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. Our financial and operating results may vary and may fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • timing of orders from customers and shipments to customers; • inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements; • impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the price of our products in international locations; • inventory writedowns; and • inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, from time to time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors generally. This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price. A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. During the last three years the price of our common stock has ranged from $13.01 to $27.39. The price of our stock may be more volatile than other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable and cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog making earnings predictability difficult and our relatively low daily stock trading volume. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance. Recently enacted and future changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules, are creating challenges for all publicly-held companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. 13 Table of Contents The occurrence of natural disasters in Asia and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. Our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have an operation in the Philippines that fabricates certain component parts used in our semiconductor test handlers. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, floods and Avian (bird) flu, which at times have disrupted the local economies. A significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, and do not presently have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would suffer. Furthermore, BMS is currently involved in a significant contract with the United Arab Emirates. Continued terrorist attacks or threats in this region may cause geopolitical instability that may have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully satisfy customer acceptance requirements and recognize revenue under the agreement, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Cohu, like other public companies, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that Cohu received not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this report relates. 