Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our Business 13-18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Stockholders 19 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19-21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22-23 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24-44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45-83 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 84 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 84 Item 9B. Other Information 84 PART III. Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 85 Item 11. Executive Compensation 85 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 85 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 SIGNATURES 87 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 88 SCHEDULE II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 89 EX-12 EX-21 EX-23 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32 2 Table of Contents PART I CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties and reflect the Company’s judgment as of the date of this report. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as “expect,” “forecast,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” or “will.” By their nature, forward-looking statements address matters that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Any such forward-looking statements may involve risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results encompassed within the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include: changes in our senior management and other matters relating to implementation of our succession plan; our ability to integrate recent acquisitions and to achieve related financial and operational goals; changes in international business and economic conditions; foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; lower than anticipated demand by retailers and other customers for our products; slower commitments of retail customers to chain-wide installations and/or source tagging adoption or expansion; possible increases in per unit product manufacturing costs due to less than full utilization of manufacturing capacity as a result of slowing economic conditions or other factors; our ability to provide and market innovative and cost-effective products; the development of new competitive technologies; our ability to maintain our intellectual property; competitive pricing pressures causing profit erosion; the availability and pricing of component parts and raw materials; possible increases in the payment time for receivables as a result of economic conditions or other market factors; changes in regulations or standards applicable to our products; the ability to implement cost reduction in field service, sales, and general and administrative expense, and our manufacturing and supply chain operations without significantly impacting revenue and profits; our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; a failure to manage our growth effectively; and additional matters discussed more fully in this report under Item 1A. “Risk Factors Related to Our Business” and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable securities laws. Item 1. BUSINESS Checkpoint Systems, Inc. is a leading global manufacturer and provider of technology-driven end-to-end loss prevention, merchandising and labeling solutions to the retail and apparel industry. We provide solutions to brand, track, and secure goods for retailers, apparel manufacturers and consumer product manufacturers worldwide. Retailers and manufacturers are increasingly focused on identifying and protecting assets that are moving through the supply chain. On the sales floor, retailers need to make sure that the right merchandise is in stock to satisfy customers and boost sales. To address this market opportunity, we have built the necessary infrastructure to be a single global source for shrink management, and merchandise tracking and visibility and apparel labeling solutions. We are a leading provider of electronic article surveillance (EAS) systems and tags using radio frequency (RF) and electromagnetic (EM) technology, source tagging security solutions, secure merchandising solutions using RF and acoustic-magnetic (AM) technology, branding tags and labels for apparel. In Europe, we are a leading provider of retail display systems (RDS) and hand-held labeling systems (HLS). We are also a leading provider and installer of store monitoring solutions, including fire alarms, intrusion alarms and digital video recorders for the retail environment in the U.S. Our labeling systems and services are designed to consolidate tag and label requirements to improve efficiency, reduce costs, and furnish value-added solutions for customers across many markets and industries. Applications for printed tags and labels include brand identification, automatic identification (auto-ID), retail shrink management, and pricing and promotional labels. We have achieved substantial international growth, primarily through acquisitions, and now operate directly in 30 countries. Products are principally developed and manufactured in-house and sold through direct distribution and reseller channels. COMPANY HISTORY Founded in 1969, we were incorporated in Pennsylvania as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logistics Industries Corporation (Logistics). In 1977, Logistics, pursuant to the terms of its merger into Lydall, Inc., distributed our common stock to Logistics’ shareholders as a dividend. Historically, we expanded our business both domestically and internationally through acquisitions, internal growth using wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the utilization of independent distributors. In 1993 and 1995, we completed two key acquisitions which gave us direct access into Western Europe. We acquired ID Systems International BV and ID Systems Europe BV in 1993 and Actron Group Limited in 1995. These companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of EAS systems throughout Europe. 3 Table of Contents In December 1999, we acquired Meto AG, a German multinational corporation and a leading provider of value-added labeling solutions for article identification and security. The acquisition doubled our revenues and provided us with an increased breadth of product offerings and global reach. In January 2001, we acquired A.W. Printing Inc., a Houston, Texas-based printer of tags, labels, and packaging material for the apparel industry. In January 2006, we completed the sale of our barcode systems business to SATO, a global leader in barcode printing, labeling, and Electronic Product Code (EPC)/Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) solutions. In November 2006, we acquired ADS Worldwide (ADS). Based in Hull, England, ADS is an established supplier of tags, labels and trim to apparel manufacturers, retailers and brands around the world. ADS provides us with new technological and production capabilities and is in line with our strategy to grow our Check-Net® apparel labeling business to create increased value for our customers and stockholders. In November 2007, we acquired the Alpha S3 business from Alpha Security Products, Inc. Based in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Alpha S3 business offers a comprehensive line of security solutions designed to protect high-theft merchandise in an open-display retail environment. The Alpha S3 product portfolio combines well with our source tagging program, and is in line with our strategy to provide retailers a comprehensive line of shrink management solutions. In November 2007, we also acquired SIDEP, an established supplier of EAS systems operating in France and China, and Shanghai Asialco Electronics Co. Ltd. (Asialco), a China-based manufacturer of RF-EAS labels. With facilities in Shanghai, China, Asialco significantly increases our label manufacturing capacity in Asia. SIDEP and Asialco will help us meet the growing demand in Asian markets. In January 2008, the Company purchased the business of Security Corporation, Inc., a privately held company that provides technology and physical security solutions to the financial services sector. During June 2008, we acquired OATSystems, Inc., a recognized leader in RFID-based application software. The addition of OATSystems, Inc. will build on our strategy to help retailers and suppliers with our EvolveTM EAS platform to more easily migrate to EPC RFID. As our industry moves to a common EPC standard, we will be able to offer solutions that enable retailers and their suppliers to gain deeper visibility of assets and merchandise — further reducing shrink and increasing bottom-line profits while enhancing the on-shelf availability of merchandise for consumers. Products and Offerings We report results of operations in three segments: Shrink Management Solutions, Intelligent Labels, and Retail Merchandising. The margins for each of the segments and the identifiable assets attributable to each reporting segment are set forth in Note 19 “Business Segments and Geographic Information” to the consolidated financial statements. Each of these segments offer an assortment of products and services that in combination are designed to provide a comprehensive, single source solution to help retailers, manufacturers, and distributors identify, track, and protect their assets throughout the entire supply chain. Each segment and their respective products and services are described below. SHRINK MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Our largest business is providing shrink management and merchandise visibility solutions to retailers. Our diversified line of security products is designed to help retailers prevent inventory losses caused by theft (both by customers and employees), reduce selling costs through lower staff requirements and boost sales by having the right goods available when customers are ready to buy. Our products facilitate the open display of consumer goods, which allows retailers to maximize sales opportunities through impulse buying. Offering our own proprietary RF-EAS and EM-EAS technologies, we believe that we hold a significant share of worldwide EAS systems installations. EAS systems revenues accounted for 35%, 38%, and 39% of our 2008, 2007, and 2006 total revenues, respectively. The installation of store monitoring solutions including fire, intrusion and CCTV/digital recording systems (CheckView™) also fall within the shrink management solutions segment. For 2008, 2007, and 2006, the CheckView™ business represented 17%, 18%, and 17% of our revenues, respectively. No other product group in this segment accounted for as much as 10% of our revenues. These broad and flexible product lines, marketed and serviced by our extensive sales and service organizations, have helped us emerge as a preferred supplier to premier retailers around the world. Shrink Management Solutions represented approximately 62% of total revenues in 2008. 4 Table of Contents Electronic Article Surveillance We have designed EAS systems to act as a deterrent to control the problem of merchandise theft in retail stores. Our diversified product lines are designed to help reduce both customer and employee theft, reduce inventory shrinkage, and enable retailers to capitalize on consumer impulse buying by openly displaying high-margin and high-cost items. During early 2008, we introduced EvolveTM, our new state-of-the-art shrink management platform. Evolve™ is our next-generation suite of RF and RFID enabled products that provide enhanced system performance and networking capability information in a more aesthetically pleasing format. Our business model relies upon customer commitments for our security product installations to a large number of their stores over a period of several months (large chain-wide installations). This new product will allow our existing customers to upgrade their security offerings and should result in increased installations for the future. The enhanced capabilities of the Evolve™ platform should also attract interest from new retail customers. As is typical with market introductions of new products in this industry, we expect the Evolve TM roll-out to positively impact our revenues over an 18-month period starting with existing customers. We offer a wide variety of RF-EAS and EM-EAS solutions to meet the varied requirements of retail store configurations for multiple market segments worldwide. Our EAS systems are primarily comprised of sensors and deactivation units, which respond to or act upon our tags and labels. We also market an extensive line of reusable security tags that protect apparel items as well as entertainment products. The November 2007 acquisition of the Alpha S3 business expanded our product offering of shrink management solutions to retailers by providing a line of products specifically designed to protect high-theft merchandise in an open-display retail environment. Our EAS products are designed and built to comply with applicable Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and European Community (EC) regulations governing RF, signal strengths, and other factors. CheckView™ — CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We provide complete store monitoring solutions, including fire alarms, intrusion alarms and digital video recording systems for retail environments. Our video surveillance solutions address shoplifting and internal theft as well as customer and employee safety and security needs. The product line consists of closed circuit television products and services including fixed and high-speed pan/tilt/zoom camera systems, programmable switcher controls, time-lapse recording, and remote video surveillance. Our fire and intrusion systems provide life safety and property protection, completing the line of loss prevention solutions. In addition to the system installations, we offer a U.S.-based 24-hour Central Station Monitoring Service. In 2008, we expanded our systems solution offering in the U.S. by entering the financial services sector, providing branch banks with physical and electronic security solutions. INTELLIGENT LABELS Intelligent labels is our second largest business, generating approximately 28% of our revenues in 2008. We offer a wide variety of EAS-RF and EAS-EM labels that provide security solutions that can be matched to specific retail requirements. Under our source tagging program, tags can be embedded in products or packaging at the point-of-manufacture. All participants in the retail supply chain are concerned with maximizing efficiency. Reducing time-to-market requires refined production and logistics systems to ensure just-in-time delivery, as well as shorter development, design, and production cycles. Services range from full-color branding labels to tracking labels and, ultimately, fully-integrated labels that include an EAS or a RFID circuit. This integration is based on the critical objective of supporting the rapid delivery of goods to market while reducing losses, whether through misdirection, tracking failure, theft or counterfeiting, and to reduce labor costs by tagging and labeling products at the source. We support these objectives with our high-quality tag and label production, a global service bureau network of e-commerce-enabled print capabilities (Check-Net®), and EAS and RFID technologies. The market is beginning to move toward more sophisticated tag solutions that incorporate RFID components and that will automate many aspects of supply chain tracking and facilitate many new merchandising enhancements for suppliers and consumers. EAS-RF and EAS-EM label revenues represented 12%, 14% and 16% of our total revenues for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Check-Net® revenues represented 15%, 15%, and 13% of our total revenues for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. No other product in this segment represented more than 10% of revenues. 5 Table of Contents Electronic Article Surveillance Labels We produce EAS-RF and EAS-EM labels that work in combination with our EAS systems to control the problem of merchandise theft in retail stores. Our diversified product line of discrete, disposable labels and one-time-use hard tags are designed to enable retailers to protect a diverse array of easily-pocketed, high shrink merchandise. While EAS labels can be applied in retail stores and distribution centers, an increasing percentage of our customers are taking advantage of our source tagging program. With source tagging, EAS labels and one-time-use hard tags are configured to the merchandise and specific security requirements of the customer and applied at the point of manufacture. Our paper thin EAS labels have characteristics that are easily integrated with high-speed automated application systems. In November, 2007 we expanded our EAS-RF label manufacturing capacity with the acquisition of Asialco. Asialco, which is based in Shanghai, China, provides additional capacity to support the growing Asia market. Check-Net® Check-Net® is Checkpoint’s web-enabled apparel labeling solutions platform and network of 25 service bureaus located in 23 countries that supplies customers with customized retail apparel tags and labels, typically to the location where the retail goods are manufactured. Checkpoint’s order entry and data management capabilities provide for on-demand printing of variable pricing and article identification data and barcode information onto price and apparel branding tags. We also offer a product line that integrates our EAS-RF security labels into customized retail apparel tags. Checkpoint’s web-enabled capabilities provide on-time, on-demand printing of custom labels with variable data. Our Check-Net® service bureau network is one of the most extensive in the industry, and its ability to offer integrated branding, barcode, and EAS security tags places it among just a handful of suppliers of this caliber in the world. Our printing capacity and service bureau network expanded in November 2006 with the acquisition of ADS. In addition to our own label integration and service bureau capabilities, we have strategic working relationships with other label integrators. Intelligent Library Systems We have established a product line of sophisticated RFID-based intelligent library solutions that offer strong features and benefits compared to competitive offerings. In October 2007, we announced a global strategic sales and marketing alliance with 3M Library Systems, who will become the exclusive worldwide reseller and service provider for our line of library security and productivity products. RFID Tags and Labels The company produces RFID tags and labels, leveraging its high volume, low cost RF circuit production and manufacturing knowledge. In October 2006, we announced our intention to focus our RFID initiative on our core retail customers and our library business. RETAIL MERCHANDISING Our retail merchandising business includes hand-held label applicators and tags, promotional displays, and queuing systems. These traditional products broaden our reach among retailers. Many of the products in this business segment represent high-margin items with a high level of recurring sales of associated consumables such as labels. As a result of the increasing use of scanning technology in retail, our HLS products are serving a declining market. Retail merchandising, which is focused on European and Asian markets, represents approximately 10% of our business, with no product group in this segment accounting for as much as 10% of our revenues. Hand-held Labeling Systems Hand-held labeling systems include a complete line of hand-held price marking and label application solutions, primarily sold to retailers. Sales of labels, consumables, and service generate a significant source of recurring revenues. As retail scanning becomes widespread, in-store retail price marking applications have continued to decline. Our HLS products possess a market leading position in several European countries. These systems are no longer sold in the U.S. as a result of the divesture to SATO in January 2006. Retail Display Systems Retail display systems include a wide range of products for customers in certain retail sectors, such as supermarkets and do-it-yourself (DIY), where high-quality signage and in-store price promotion are important. Product categories include traditional retail promotional systems for in-store communication and electronic graphics systems, and customer queuing systems. 6 Table of Contents BUSINESS STRATEGY Our business strategy focuses on providing end-to-end shrink management and merchandise visibility solutions and apparel labeling solutions that help retailers, manufacturers, and distributors identify, track, and protect their assets. We believe that innovative new products and expanded product offerings will provide significant opportunities to enhance the value of legacy products while expanding the product base in existing customer accounts. We intend to maintain our leadership position in certain key hard goods markets (supermarkets, drug stores, mass merchandisers, and music/electronics), expand our market share in the soft goods markets (apparel), and maximize our position in under-penetrated markets. We also intend to continue to capitalize on our installed base of large global retailers to promote source tagging. Furthermore, we plan to leverage our knowledge of RF and identification technologies to assist retailers and manufacturers in realizing the benefits of RFID. To achieve these objectives, we plan to work to continually enhance and expand our technologies and products, and provide superior service to our customers. We are focused on providing our customers with a wide variety of integrated shrink management solutions, labeling, and retail merchandising solutions characterized by superior quality, ease of use, good value, and enhanced merchandising opportunities for the retailer, manufacturer, and distributor. We continue to evaluate our sales productivity, manufacturing and supply chain efficiency, and our overhead structure and have taken actions where we have identified specific opportunities to improve profitability. Principal Markets and Marketing Strategy Through our Shrink Management Solutions business segment, we market EAS systems, software and other security solutions, and CheckView™ products and services primarily to worldwide retailers in the hard goods market and soft goods market. We enjoy significant market share, particularly in the supermarket, drug store, hypermarket, and mass merchandiser market segments. Shoplifting and employee theft are major causes of shrinkage. Data collection systems have highlighted the shrinkage problem to retailers. As a result, retailers recognize that the implementation of effective electronic security solutions can significantly reduce shrinkage and increase profitability. In addition to providing retail security solutions, we provide a wide variety of integrated shrink management and merchandise visibility solutions, labeling solutions, and retail merchandising solutions to manufacturers and retailers worldwide. This entails a broadened focus within the entire retail supply chain by providing branding, tracking, and shrink management solutions to retail stores, distribution centers, and consumer product and apparel manufacturers worldwide. We are focused on providing our customers with a wide variety of integrated solutions to help them “Sell More and Lose Less.” Our ongoing marketing strategy includes the following: • open new, and expand existing retail accounts with new products that will increase penetration through integrated value-added solutions for labeling, security, and merchandising; • establish business-to-business web-based capabilities to enable retailers and manufacturers to initiate and track their orders through the supply chain on a global basis; • expand market opportunities to manufacturers and distributors, including source tagging and value-added labeling; • continue to promote source tagging around the world with extensive integration and automation capabilities using new EAS, RFID, and auto-ID technologies; and • assist retailers in understanding the benefits and implementation of the new EPC using RFID technology. We market our products primarily: • by providing total loss prevention solutions to the retailer; • by helping retailers sell more merchandise by avoiding stock-outs and making merchandise available to consumers; • by serving as a single point of contact for auto-ID and EAS labeling and ticketing needs; • through direct sales efforts and targeted trade show participation; • through superior service and support capabilities; and • by emphasizing source tagging benefits. 7 Table of Contents We focus on partnering with retail suppliers worldwide in our source tagging program. Ongoing strategies to increase acceptance of source tagging are as follows: • increase installation of EAS equipment on a chain-wide basis with leading retailers around the world; • offer integrated tag solutions, including custom tag conversion that addresses the needs of branding, tracking, and loss prevention; • assist retailers in promoting source tagging with vendors; • broaden penetration of existing accounts by promoting our in-house printing, global service bureau network (Check-Net®), and labeling solution capabilities; • support manufacturers and suppliers to speed implementation; • expand RF tag technologies and products to accommodate the needs of the packaging industry; and • develop compatibility with EPC/RFID technologies. MANUFACTURING, RAW MATERIALS, AND INVENTORY Electronic Article Surveillance We manufacture our EAS systems and labels, including Alpha S3 products, in facilities located in Puerto Rico, Japan, China, the U.S. and the Dominican Republic. Our manufacturing strategy for EAS products is to rely primarily on in-house capability for core components and to outsource manufacturing to the extent economically beneficial. We manage the integration of our in-house capability and our outsourced manufacturing in a way that provides significant control over costs, quality, and responsiveness to market demand, which we believe results in a distinct competitive advantage. We involve customers, engineering, manufacturing, and marketing in the design and development of our products. For RF sensor production, we purchase raw materials from outside suppliers and assemble electronic components at our facilities in the Dominican Republic for the majority of our sensor product lines. The manufacture of some RF sensors sold in Europe and all EM hardware is outsourced. For our EAS disposable tag production, we purchase raw materials and components from suppliers and complete the manufacturing process at our facilities in Puerto Rico, Japan, and China. We sold approximately 4 billion disposable tags in 2008 and have the capacity to produce approximately 6 billion disposable tags per year. For our Alpha S3 secured merchandising production, we purchase raw materials and components from suppliers and complete the manufacturing process at our facilities in the U.S. as well as using outsourced manufacturing in China. The principal raw materials and components used by us in the manufacture of our products are electronic components and circuit boards for our systems; aluminum foil, resins, paper, and ferric chloride and hydrochloric acid solutions for our disposable tags; and polymer resin for our Alpha S3 products. While most of these materials are purchased from several suppliers, there are alternative sources for all such materials. The products that are not manufactured by us are sub-contracted to manufacturers selected for their manufacturing and assembly skills, quality, and price. CheckView™ — CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We are primarily an integrator of CCTV, fire and intrusion components manufactured by others. In the U.S., we use in-house capabilities to assemble products such as the pan/tilt/zoom dome camera and other products such as the Advanced Public View (APV) CCTV system. The software component of the system is added during product assembly at our operational facilities. Check-Net® and Retail Merchandising We manufacture labels, tags, and hand-held tools. Our main production facilities are located in Germany, the Netherlands, the U.S., the U.K., and Malaysia. Local production facilities are also situated in Hong Kong, China and Turkey. Manufacturing in Germany is focused on HLS labels and print heads for HLS tools. Our facilities in the Netherlands, the U.S., and the U.K. manufacture labels and tags for laser overprinting. The Malaysian facility produces standard bodies for HLS tools for Europe, complete hand-held tools for the rest of the world, and labels for the local market. With the acquisition of ADS in November 2006, we acquired label manufacturing facilities in the U.K., Hong Kong, China, and Turkey. 8 Table of Contents DISTRIBUTION For our major product lines, we principally sell our products to end customers using our direct sales force of more than 500 sales people. To improve our sales efficiency, we also distribute products through an independent network of resellers. This distribution channel supports and services smaller customers. This indirect channel, which has primarily sold EAS solutions, will be broadened and expanded to include more product lines as we focus on improved sales productivity. Electronic Article Surveillance We sell our EAS systems, labels, and Alpha S3 products principally throughout North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. In North America, we market our EAS products through our own sales personnel and independent representatives. Internationally, we market our EAS products principally through foreign subsidiaries which sell directly to the end-user and through independent distributors. Our international sales operations are currently located in 14 European countries and in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Puerto Rico, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Malaysia, China, Mexico, and New Zealand. Foreign distributors sell our products to both the retail and library markets. Pursuant to written distribution agreements, we generally appoint an independent distributor as an exclusive distributor for a specified term and for a specified territory. In October 2007, we announced a global strategic sales and marketing alliance with 3M Library Systems, who will become the exclusive worldwide reseller and service provider for our line of library security and productivity products. CheckView™ — CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We market CCTV systems and services in selected countries throughout the world using our own sales staff. These products and services are provided to our EAS retail customers, as well as non-EAS retailers. Fire and intrusion systems are marketed exclusively in the U.S. through a direct sales force. Check-Net® and Retail Merchandising We have customers worldwide in the Check-Net® and retail merchandising businesses. These customers are primarily found within the retail sector and retail supply chain. Major customers include companies within industries such as food retailing, DIY, department stores, and apparel retailers. Large national and international customers are handled centrally by key account sales specialists supported by appropriate business specialists. Smaller customers are served by either a general sales force capable of representing all products or, if the complexity or size of the business demands, a dedicated business specialist. BACKLOG Our backlog of orders was approximately $51.8 million at December 28, 2008 compared to approximately $73.5 million at December 30, 2007. We anticipate that substantially all of the backlog at the end of 2008 will be delivered during 2009. In the opinion of management, the amount of backlog is not indicative of trends in our business. Our security business generally follows the retail cycle so that revenues are weighted toward the last half of the calendar year as retailers prepare for the holiday season. TECHNOLOGY We believe that our patented and proprietary technologies are important to our business and future growth opportunities, and provide us with distinct competitive advantages. We continually evaluate our domestic and international patent portfolio, and where the cost of maintaining the patent exceeds its value, such patent may not be renewed. The majority of our revenues are derived from products or technologies which are patented or licensed. There can be no assurance, however, that a competitor could not develop products comparable to ours. Our competitive position is also supported by our extensive manufacturing experience and know-how. PATENTS & LICENSING On October 1, 1995, we acquired certain patents and improvements thereon related to EAS products and manufacturing processes from Arthur D. Little, Inc. for which we pay annual royalties. Our payment obligation terminated on December 31, 2008, and since then we have held a royalty free license. We also license technologies relating to RFID applications, EAS products, certain sensors, magnetic labels, and fluid tags. These license arrangements have various expiration dates and royalty terms, but are not considered by us to be material. 9 Table of Contents Check-Net® and Retail Merchandising We focus our in-house development efforts on product areas where we believe we can achieve and sustain a competitive cost and positioning advantage, and where delivery service is critical. We also develop and maintain technological expertise in areas that are believed to be important for new product development in our principal business areas. We have a base of technology expertise in the printing, electronics, and software areas and are particularly focused on EAS and labeling capabilities to support the development of higher value-added labels. SEASONALITY Our business is subject to seasonal influences, which generally causes us to realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year. Our business’ seasonality substantially follows the retail cycle of our customers, which generally has revenues weighted towards the last half of the calendar year in preparation for the holiday season. COMPETITION Electronic Article Surveillance Currently, EAS systems and labels are sold to two principal markets: retail establishments and libraries. Our principal global competitor in the EAS industry is Tyco International Ltd. (Tyco), through its ADT security division. Tyco is a diversified manufacturing and service company with interests in electronics, fire and security, healthcare, plastics and adhesives, and engineered products and services. Tyco’s 2008 revenues were approximately $20.2 billion. Within the U.S. market, additional competitors include Sentry Technology Corporation and Ketec, Inc. in EAS systems and labels, and All-Tag Security in EAS-RF labels, principally in the retail market. Within our international markets, mainly Europe, NEDAP Retail Support and Tyco are our most significant competitors. The largest competitors of the Alpha S3 secured merchandising product line include Clear-vu and Amaray. We believe that our product line offers a more diverse range of products than our competition with a variety of disposable and reusable tags and labels, integrated scan/deactivation capabilities, and RF source tagging embedded into products or packaging. As a result, we compete in marketing our products primarily on the basis of their versatility, reliability, affordability, accuracy, and integration into operations. This combination provides many system solutions and allows for protection against a variety of retail merchandise theft. Furthermore, we believe that our manufacturing know-how and efficiencies relating to disposable tags give us a cost advantage over our competitors. CheckView™ — CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems Our CCTV, fire and intrusion products, which are sold domestically through our Checkpoint Security Systems Group, and CCTV products sold internationally through our international sales subsidiaries, compete primarily with similar products offered by Pelco and Tyco. We compete based on our superior service and believe that our offerings provide our retail and non-retail customers with distinctive system features. Check-Net® We sell our Check-Net® services, including tags and labels, to the retail market. Major competitors for our label products are Avery Dennison Corporation and SML Group. Several competitive labeling service companies are also customers as they purchase EAS circuits from us to integrate into their label offerings. Retail Merchandising We face no single competitor across our entire retail merchandising product range or across all international markets. HL Display AB is our largest competitor in the retail display systems market, primarily in Europe. In the HLS segment, we compete with Contact, Garvey Products Inc., Hallo, Avery Dennison Corporation, and Prix. 10 Table of Contents OTHER MATTERS Research and Development We spent approximately $22.6 million, $18.2 million, and $19.4 million, in research and development activities during 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The emphasis of these activities is the continued broadening of the product lines offered by us, cost reductions of the current product lines, and an expansion of the markets and applications for our products. We believe that our future growth in revenues will be dependent, in part, on the products and technologies resulting from these efforts. Another important source of new products and technologies has been the acquisition of companies and products. The November 2007 acquisition of the Alpha S3 business has enhanced our ability to introduce new products specifically targeted to high-theft merchandise in an open-display retail environment. We continue to assess acquisitions of related businesses or products consistent with our overall product and marketing strategies. The 2008 acquisition of OATSystems, Inc. will build on our strategy of helping retailers and suppliers migrate more easily with our Evolve™ Electronic Article Surveillance platform to EPC RFID. As our industry moves to a common EPC standard, we will now be able to offer solutions that enable retailers and their supply chains to gain deeper visibility of their assets and merchandise - further reducing shrink and increasing the bottom-line profits by enhancing on-shelf merchandise availability for consumers. We continue to develop and expand our product lines with improvements in disposable tag performance, disposable tag manufacturing processes, and wide-aisle RF-EAS detection sensors with integration of remote and wireless internet connectivity and RFID integration. Employees As of December 28, 2008, we had 3,878 employees, including seven executive officers, 134 employees engaged in research and development activities, and 577 employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. In the United States, 11 of our employees are represented by a union. In Europe, approximately 302 of our employees are represented by various unions or work councils. Financial Information About Geographic and Business Segments We operate both domestically and internationally in the three distinct business segments described previously. The financial information regarding our geographic and business segments, which includes net revenues and gross profit for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 28, 2008, and long-lived assets as of December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007, and December 31, 2006, is provided in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information Our internet website is at www.checkpointsystems.com. Investors can obtain copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed such materials with, or furnished them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We will also furnish a paper copy of such filings free of charge upon request. Investors can also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings can also be accessed at the SEC’s internet website: www.sec.gov. We have posted the Code of Ethics, the Governance Guidelines, and each of the Committee Charters on our website at www.checkpointsystems.com, and will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Ethics applicable to any of our directors or executive officers. The foregoing information will also be available in print upon request. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Company The following table sets forth certain current information concerning the executive officers of the Company, including their ages, position, and tenure as of the date hereof: Tenure with Position with the Company and Name Age Company Date of Election to Position on Robert P. van der Merwe 56 2 years Chairman since December 2008, President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2007 Raymond D. Andrews 55 3 years Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007 Per H. Levin 51 14 years President, Shrink Management and Merchandise Visibility Solutions since March 2006 Bernard Gremillet 56 5 years Executive Vice President, Global Customer Management since August 2007 John R. Van Zile 56 5 years Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 2003 Farrokh K. Abadi 47 5 years Senior Vice President, and Chief Innovation Officer since April 2008 Steven Davidson 51 1 year President, Global Apparel Labeling Solutions since October 2008 Mr. van der Merwe was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company on December 27, 2007. In December 2008, Mr. van der Merwe was appointed the Company’s Chairman of the Board and has been a member of the Board of Directors since October 2007. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Paxar Corporation, a global leader in providing innovative merchandising systems to retailers and apparel customers. He became Chairman of the Board of Paxar in January 2007, and served in these capacities until Paxar’s sale to Avery Dennison in June 2007. Prior to joining Paxar, Mr. van der Merwe held numerous executive positions with Kimberly-Clark Corporation from 1980 to 1987 and from 1994 to 2005, including the positions of Group President of Kimberly-Clark’s global consumer tissue business and Group President of Europe, Middle East and Africa. Earlier in his career, Mr. van der Merwe held managerial positions in South Africa at Xerox Corporation and Colgate Palmolive. Mr. Andrews was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on December 6, 2007. Mr. Andrews was Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company from August 2005 until December 2007. He previously served as Controller of INVISTA S.a’r.l., a subsidiary of Koch Industries, where he oversaw the company’s accounting operations in North and South America, Europe and Asia. Prior to the acquisition by Koch Industries, Mr. Andrews was Director of Accounting Operations of INVISTA Inc. From 1998 to 2002, Mr. Andrews served as Controller for DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company and then Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company, a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb, when that company acquired DuPont Pharmaceuticals in 2001. Prior to being appointed Controller, he held positions of increasing responsibility at DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company and the DuPont Company. Mr. Andrews is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Levin was appointed President, Shrink Management and Merchandise Visibility Solutions in March 2006. He was President of Europe from June 2004 until March 2006, Executive Vice President, General Manager, Europe from May 2003 until June 2004, Vice President, General Manager, Europe from February 2001 until May 2003. Mr. Levin was Regional Director, Southern Europe from 1997 to 2001 and joined the Company in January 1995 as Managing Director of Spain. Mr. Gremillet was appointed Executive Vice President Global Customer Management in January 2009. Previously, he was Executive Vice President Geographies since August 2007. Prior to that Mr. Gremillet was President, Europe and Latin America from March 2006 to August 2007. Mr. Gremillet was Western Mediterranean Unit Manager from March 2004 until March 2006 and was an independent consultant to Checkpoint from February 2003 to March 2004. Mr. Gremillet was Corporate Director of Engineering and Technology at Repsol YPF SA, from December 1999 to May 2002 and Senior Vice President Downstream at YPF SA in 1999. He held a variety of positions, including Vice President Marketing and Development for Oilfield Services from July 1995 to June 1997 and Vice President and General Manager for Latin America from July 1989 to June 1993 during his 22 years with Schlumberger from 1975 to 1997. Mr. Van Zile has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since joining the Company in June 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Van Zile served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Exide Corporation from September 2000 until October 2002, and was Vice President and General Counsel from November 1996 until September 2000. Prior to Exide Corporation, Mr. Van Zile held positions of increasing legal responsibility at GM-Hughes Electronics Corporation and Coltec Industries. Mr. Abadi was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer in October 2008. Mr. Abadi retains responsibility for the Company’s procurement and systems supply chain. He also served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations from April 2006 until October 2008 and Vice President and General Manager, Worldwide Research and Development from November 2004 until April 2006. Prior to joining Checkpoint, Mr. Abadi was Senior Vice President of Global Cross-Industry Practices at Atos Origin from February 2004 until November 2004. Mr. Abadi held various senior management positions with Schlumberger for over eighteen years. 12 Table of Contents Mr. Davidson joined Checkpoint in 2008 as President, Global Apparel Labeling Solutions. Previously, he spent 16 years with the Braitrim Group, a company providing products and services to global apparel retailers and garment manufacturers. While with the Braitrim Group, Mr. Davidson made a significant contribution to building their $180 million business, including establishing Sales and Marketing and Manufacturing infrastructures throughout Asia. Following the acquisition of Braitrim by the Spotless Group in 2002, Mr. Davidson remained with the larger organization in the capacity of Managing Director, EMEA, for Spotless Retailer Services. Mr. Davidson’s previous experience includes Senior Management positions at TCI Marketing Consultancy, K Shoes Group in the UK, and Unilever. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience and from results predicted by any forward-looking statements related to conditions or events that may occur in the future. Current economic conditions could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our operations and results depend significantly on global market worldwide economic conditions, which have experienced a recent deterioration. Current economic factors include diminished liquidity and tighter credit conditions, leading to decreased credit availability, as well as declines in economic growth and employment levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These conditions may increase the difficulty for us to accurately forecast and plan future business. Customer demand could be impacted by decreased spending by businesses and consumers alike, and competitive pricing pressures could increase. Additionally, the disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing to support our strategy for future growth through acquisitions. We are unable to predict the length or severity of the current economic conditions. A continuation or further deterioration of these economic factors may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We have significant foreign operations, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. We are a multinational manufacturer and marketer of identification, tracking security, and merchandising solutions for the retail industry. We have significant operations outside of the U.S. We currently operate directly in 30 countries, and our international operations generate approximately 65% of our revenue. We expect net revenue generated outside of the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. Business operations outside of the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: • the difficulty in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; • the threat of nationalization and expropriation; • increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; • changes in enacted tax laws; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; and • fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate, as well as the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Volatility in currency exchange rates and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. See Part 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our net revenue derived from sales in non-U.S. markets is approximately 65% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. When the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our functional currency. We monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we enter into contracts to reduce the risks of currency fluctuations on short-term inter-company receivables and payables, and on projected future billings in non-functional currencies and use third-party borrowings in foreign currencies to hedge a portion of our net investments in, and cash flows derived from, our foreign subsidiaries. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of lower than anticipated demand by retailers and other customers for our products, particularly in the current economic environment. Our business is heavily dependent on the retail marketplace. Changes in the economic environment including the liquidity and financial condition of our customers or reductions in retailer spending could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If a decreased consumer spending trend develops, retailers could respond by reducing their spending on new store openings and loss prevention budgets. This reduction could directly impact our SMS business, as a reduction in new store openings will lower demand for EAS security and CCTV installations. Additionally, lower loss prevention budgets could reduce the amount retailers will be willing to spend to upgrade existing store technology. Label demand could also be impacted due to lower loss prevention budgets as retailers may reduce the percentage of items covered. Additionally, our label volume increases as more items are sold through the retailer and lower demand decreases the volume related to the items tagged by the retailer. As retail sales volumes decline, label demand may also decline. A decrease in the demand for our products resulting from reduced spending by retailers due to fewer store openings, reduced loss prevention budgets and slower adoption of our new technology could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of slower commitments of retail customers to chain-wide installations and/or source tagging adoption or expansion. Our revenues are dependent on our ability to maintain and increase our system installation base. The SMS system installation base leads to additional revenues, which we term as “recurring revenues,” through the sale of sensor tags and maintenance services. In addition, we partner with manufacturers to include our sensor tags into the product during manufacturing, an approach known as source tagging. The level of commitments for chain-wide installations may decline due to decreased consumer spending that results in reduced spending on loss prevention by our retail customers, our failure to develop new technology that entices the customer to maintain their commitment to our loss prevention products and services, and competing technologies. A reduction in the commitment for chain-wide installations may also impact our ability to expand utilization of our source tagging program. A reduction in commitments to chain-wide installations and utilization of our source tagging program could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The markets we serve are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively if we are unable to provide and market innovative and cost-effective products at competitive prices. We face competition around the world, including competition from other large, multinational companies and other regional companies. Some of these companies may have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. We face competition in several aspects of our business. In the SMS EAS and Alpha S3 businesses and Intelligent Labels EAS business, we compete primarily on the basis of integrated security solutions and diversified, sophisticated, and quality product lines targeted at meeting the loss prevention needs of our retail customers. In our CheckView™ business, we compete primarily on the basis of efficient installation capability that is in place in North America. In the Check-Net® Service Bureau business, we compete primarily on the capability to effectively and quickly deliver retail customer specified labels to manufacturing sites in multiple countries. It is possible that our competitors will be able to offer additional products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we cannot offer or that will make our products less profitable. It is also possible that our competitors will offer incentive programs or will market and advertise their products in a way that will impact customers’ preferences, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of our competitors’ activities and initiatives, or we may be unable to successfully counteract them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to our competitors’ activities may affect our financial performance in the relevant period. Our ability to compete also depends on our ability to attract and retain key talent, protect patent and trademark rights, and develop innovative and cost-effective products. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 14 Table of Contents Our long term success is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies, and if we are unable to successfully develop those technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our growth depends on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can: • develop and fund technological innovations, such as those related to our next generation EAS product solutions, continued investment in evolving RFID technologies, and other innovative security device, software, and systems initiatives; • receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection; and • successfully anticipate customer needs and preferences. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Research and development for each of our operating segments is complex and uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market trends. Also, delay in the development or launch of a new product could compromise our competitive position, particularly if our competitors announce or introduce new products and services in advance of us. An inability to acquire, protect or maintain our intellectual property and patents could harm our ability to compete or grow. We have a number of patents that will expire in the next several years. Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry, we rely on protections of our intellectual property and proprietary information to maintain a competitive advantage. The expiration of these patents will reduce the barriers to entry into our existing lines of business and may result in loss of market share and a decrease in our competitive abilities, thus having a potential adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of possible increases in per unit product manufacturing costs as a result of slowing economic conditions or other factors. Our manufacturing capacity is designed to meet our current and future anticipated demands. If our product demand decreases as a result of economic conditions and other factors, it could increase our cost per unit. If an increase in our cost per unit is passed on to our customers, it may decrease our competitive position, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. If an increase per unit is not passed on to our customers, it may reduce our gross margins, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our EAS and service bureau label manufacturing has various low price competitors globally. In order for us to maintain and improve our market position, we need to continuously monitor and seek to improve our manufacturing effectiveness while maintaining our high quality standard. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to improve manufacturing and supply chain effectiveness, then our cost per unit may increase which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and component parts required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. We purchase materials and component parts from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our ability to grow earnings will be affected by inflationary and other increases in the cost of component parts and raw materials, including electronic components, circuit boards, aluminum foil, resins, paper, and ferric chloride and hydrochloric acid solutions. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials, labor, and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to pass these cost increases on to customers in the prices for our products and to effect improvements in productivity. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher component parts and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. A disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Any of these problems could result in the loss of customers and revenue, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Possible increases in the payment time for receivables as a result of economic conditions or other market factors could have a material effect on our results from operations and anticipated cash from operating activities. The majority of our customer base is in the retail marketplace. Although we have a rigorous process to administer credit granted to customers and believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, we have experienced, and in the future may experience, losses as a result of our inability to collect our accounts receivable. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. The financial difficulties of a customer could result in reduced business with that customer. We may also assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial difficulty. If these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from a major customer could substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows from operating activities. Changes in legislation or governmental regulations, policies or standards applicable to our products may have a significant impact on our ability to compete in our target markets. We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters, and financial responsibility. Our EAS products are subject to FCC regulation, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate, including regulation of the Conformité Européene (CE) in Europe. Failure to comply with laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits or licenses. If laws and regulations change and we fail to comply, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to implement cost reductions in field services, selling, general and administrative expenses, and our manufacturing and supply chain operations may have a significant impact on our business and future revenues and profits. We are in the process of taking actions to rationalize our field service, improve our sales productivity, reduce our general and administrative expenses, and reconfigure our manufacturing and supply chain operations. Such rationalization actions require management judgment on the development of cost reduction strategies and precision on the execution of those strategies. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, and other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits. We also cannot predict whether we will realize improved operating performance as a result of any cost reduction strategies. Further, in the event the market continues to fluctuate, we may not have the appropriate level of resources and personnel to react to the change. We are also subject to the risk of business disruption in connection with our restructuring initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and future revenues and profits. Our ability to integrate the acquisitions of the Alpha S3, SIDEP/Asialco, and OATSystems businesses and to achieve our financial and operational goals for these businesses could have an impact on future revenues and profits. We are in the process of integrating our Alpha S3, SIDEP/Asialco, and OATSystems businesses into our operations. In 2007, we acquired the Alpha S3 business, and we are working to take advantage of the business to utilize our existing sales force to grow revenue. In 2007, we also acquired the SIDEP/Asialco business, and we are attempting to integrate that business to optimize worldwide manufacturing capabilities and improve the quality and profitability of the acquired product lines. In June 2008, we acquired OATSystems, which will facilitate complementary merchandise protection and inventory management applications solutions that will enable retailers and their supply chains to gain deeper inventory visibility. Various risks, uncertainties and costs are associated with the acquisitions. Effective integration of systems, key business processes, controls, objectives, personnel, management practices, product lines, markets, customers, supply chain operations, and production facilities can be difficult to achieve and the results are uncertain, particularly across our internationally diverse organization. We may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired company and we may not be able to successfully execute integration strategies or achieve projected performance targets set for the business segment into which an acquired company is integrated. Our ability to execute the integration plans could have an impact on future revenues and profits and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance that these acquisitions or others will be successful and contribute to our profitability. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. Our strategy is to maximize value by achieving growth both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to annually assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. In addition, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the Company is required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill with an indefinite life, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in such factors and conditions. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, as well as when interim events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess definite lived intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual goodwill impairment test resulted in an estimated goodwill impairment charge of $59.6 million in the quarter ended December 28, 2008, primarily related to the Intelligent Labels and Retail Merchandising segments. Although our analysis regarding the fair value of the remaining goodwill indicates that it exceeds its carrying value, materially different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses or significant declines in our stock price could result in additional goodwill impairment losses. We expect to finalize the goodwill impairment analysis in the first quarter of 2009 and any adjustment to the estimated impairment will be recorded in that period. We also evaluate other assets on our balance sheet whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. As a result of changes in circumstances related to the customer relationship intangible related to the Asialco acquisition, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.6 million in the quarter ended December 28, 2008. Although our analysis regarding the fair value of the remaining assets indicates that it exceeds their carrying value, materially different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in significant asset impairment losses. The Company’s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties that may arise out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to intellectual property, employment, commercial and other matters. Resolution of such matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any disruption or failure of such networks, systems, or other technology may disrupt our operations, cause customer dissatisfaction, and loss of customer revenues. 17 Table of Contents As a global business, we have a relatively complex tax structure, and there is a risk that tax authorities will disagree with our tax positions. Since we conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries, we are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between us and our foreign affiliates be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm’s length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the tax allocation. Although uniform transfer pricing standards are emerging in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. Our tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures, the ultimate outcome of a tax review could differ materially from our provisions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 