risk factors refer to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The worldwide economic downturn and difficult conditions in the global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, as well as the industries of our customers. We do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability and cost of credit, and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners. These conditions have resulted and may continue to result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers, customers or business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase from us, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Similarly, any of these events may affect our business partners’ financial condition, such as those companies that operate mines where we own silver production and reserves, and the negative impact on our business partners could adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our customers’ access to credit, which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses worldwide and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. The market prices of silver and gold are volatile. If we experience low silver and gold prices it may result in decreased revenues, decreased net income or losses and decreased cash flows, and may negatively affect our business. Silver and gold are commodities. Their prices fluctuate, and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. Because we currently derive approximately 69% of our revenues from continuing operations from sales of silver, our earnings and cash flows are primarily related to the price of this metal. Sustained weakness in the price of silver could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. The market prices of silver (Handy & Harman) and gold (London Final) on February 26, 2009 were $13.12 and $937 per ounce, respectively. The prices of silver and gold may decline in the future. Factors that are generally understood to contribute to a decline in the price of silver include sales by private and government holders, and a general global economic slowdown. Coeur may also suffer from declines in mineral prices. Since 1999, Coeur has not engaged in any silver hedging activities and is currently not engaged in any gold hedging activities. Accordingly, Coeur has no protection from declines in mineral prices or currency fluctuations. 11 Table of Contents If the prices of silver and gold are depressed for a sustained period and our net losses resume, we may be forced to suspend mining at one or more of our properties until the prices increase, and to record additional asset impairment write-downs. Any lost revenues, continued or increased net losses or additional asset impairment write-downs would adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant demands on our liquidity. We have incurred significant capital expenditures in recent years to acquire and develop additional producing properties, during which time our revenues have decreased and operating costs have increased. In addition, the Company plans to invest approximately $130 million in capital activities in 2009 to complete construction of Palmarejo and for sustaining capital investments at our existing operations. This excludes capital expenditures at Kensington, which will be updated after the U.S. Supreme Court decision. Our ability to fund these operations depends to a significant extent on both our operating performance, which in turn depends on our production of silver and gold and the price of silver and gold, as well as on our ability to raise funds through the sale of debt and equity securities. The current global financial crisis has increased our cost of funds and may impede our ability to raise any funds that could be required in the future. We may have to record write-downs of long-lived assets, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”), established accounting standards for impairment of the value of long-lived assets such as mining properties. SFAS 144 requires a company to review the recoverability of the cost of its assets by estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment, measured by comparing an asset’s carrying value to its fair value, must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows, and recognizing impairment write-downs could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If silver or gold prices decline or we fail to control production costs or realize the minable ore reserves at our mining properties, we may be required to recognize asset write-downs. We also may record other types of additional mining property charges in the future to the extent a property is sold by us for a price less than the carrying value of the property, or if reclamation liabilities have to be increased in connection with the closure and reclamation of a property. Additional write-downs of mining properties could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Kensington property has been the subject of litigation involving a permit required to complete construction of a required tailings facility. Reference is made to the discussion set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Federal Court (Alaska) Kensington Project Permit Challenge” for a detailed description of the Kensington project permit legal challenge, including the possibility of an impairment writedown in the event that the expectation of the long-term price for gold decreases below approximately $750 per ounce. No assurance can be given as to whether or when regulatory permits and approvals granted to the Company may be further challenged, appealed or contested by third parties or issuing agencies, or as to whether the Company will ultimately place the Kensington project into commercial production. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company temporarily suspended operations at Cerro Bayo in order to conserve existing reserves and focus on exploration and development of new discoveries and existing veins. The Company’s objective is to recommence production at lower costs and higher production rates in 2010. The Company determined that the reduced production levels and the increase in operating cost levels was a triggering event in accordance with SFAS 144, requiring the Company to assess whether the long-lived assets at the mine were impaired. Step one of the impairment assessment compares the cumulative undiscounted prospective cash flows of the mine to the sum of the carrying values of the long-lived assets at Cerro Bayo. Should the carrying values of the long-lived assets at the mine exceed the sum of those undiscounted future cash flows, a comparison of 12 Table of Contents the fair value of the asset to its book value is then required. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss would be recorded. In projecting its future cash flows, the Company considers certain assumptions for silver prices (including current and historical prices, analyst consensus forward prices, as well as the trailing three-year average silver market prices) and production levels, expected and historical operating costs and required capital expenditures based on available life of mine plans. Assumptions underlying future cash flows are subject to significant risk and uncertainty associated with any differences between specific assumptions and market conditions, such as silver and gold prices, lower than expected recoverable ounces and/or the Company’s operating performance. Based on the Company’s assessment, there was not a required impairment at December 31, 2008. Should silver prices fall below the consensus forward or historical prices, should the cash costs per ounce exceed those projected and historically achieved, or should an updated reserve report result in a reduction of the number of ounces recoverable at Cerro Bayo, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss and that loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial position. Our future operating performance may not generate cash flows sufficient to meet our debt payment obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of approximately $462 million of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments on our outstanding indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and cash flow. Our operating performance and cash flow, in part, are subject to economic factors beyond our control, including the market prices of silver and gold. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our obligations and commitments. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to further refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain the necessary funds. We cannot predict whether we will be able to refinance our debt, issue equity or dispose of assets to raise funds on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms. We might be unable to raise additional financing necessary to conduct our business, make payments when due or refinance our debt. We might need to raise additional funds in order to implement our business plan, refinance our debt or acquire complementary businesses or products. Any required additional financing might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, holders of our common stock could experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and these securities could have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The Palmarejo project is in the beginning stages of commercial production and involves significant risks associated with the commencement of commercial production. There can be no assurance that significant losses will not occur at the Palmarejo project in the near future or that the Palmarejo project will be profitable in the future. Coeur’s operating expenses and capital expenditures may increase in subsequent years as needed consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing exploration, development and commercial production of the Palmarejo project and any other properties Coeur may acquire are added. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of ongoing exploration and development and the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, which are beyond Coeur’s control. Our revenues and income (or loss) from our interest in the Endeavor and Broken Hill mines are dependent in part upon the performance of the operators of the mine. In May and September 2005, we acquired silver production and reserves at the Endeavor and Broken Hill mines in Australia, respectively. These mines are owned and operated by other mining companies. The Company’s revenues and income (or loss) from its interest in the silver production at these mines are dependent in part upon the performance of those operators and such mines as well as upon zinc and lead prices that are sufficient to maintain sustainable operations. The decline in primary metal prices may result in cessation of mining operations and an impairment would likely occur. 13 Table of Contents On August 21, 2008, the operator of the Broken Hill mine advised the market that, following an extensive review of its Broken Hill operations, it had implemented a plan to resize the operation in light of current low metal prices. Under the revised operating plan, ore production will decrease from 1.8 to 0.95 million tonnes per year. This reduction in ore production could have an adverse effect on Coeur’s revenues and income at this mine. The estimation of ore reserves is imprecise and depends upon subjective factors. Estimated ore reserves may not be realized in actual production. Our operating results may be negatively affected by inaccurate estimates. The ore reserve figures presented in our public filings are estimates made by our technical personnel. Reserve estimates are a function of geological and engineering analyses that require us to make assumptions about production costs and silver and gold market prices. Reserve estimation is an imprecise and subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. Assumptions about silver and gold market prices are subject to great uncertainty as those prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market prices of silver or gold may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to reduce reserve estimates, discontinue development or mining at one or more of our properties, or write down assets as impaired. Should we encounter mineralization or geologic formations at any of our mines or projects different from those we predicted, we may adjust our reserve estimates and alter our mining plans. Either of these alternatives may adversely affect our actual production and operating results. We based our ore reserve determinations as of December 31, 2008 on a long-term silver price average of $13.25 per ounce, with the exception of the Endeavor mine which uses $12.00 per ounce and the Broken Hill mine which uses $2.22 per ounce of silver, and a long-term gold price average of $750 per ounce for all properties. On February 26, 2009 silver and gold prices were $13.12 per ounce and $937 per ounce, respectively. The estimation of the ultimate recovery of metals contained within the Rochester heap leach pad inventory is inherently inaccurate and subjective and requires the use of estimation techniques. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations. The Rochester mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract silver and gold from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting silver and gold by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained silver and gold, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. We use several integrated steps in the process of extracting silver and gold to estimate the metal content of ore placed on the leach pads. Although we refine our estimates as appropriate at each step in the process, the final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of silver and gold available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. As a result, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our estimates of current and non-current inventories may not be realized in actual production and operating results, which may negatively affect our business. We use estimates, based on prior production results and experiences, to determine whether heap leach inventory will be recovered more than one year in the future, and is non-current inventory, or will be recovered within one year, and is current inventory. The estimates involve assumptions that may not prove to be consistent with our actual production and operating results. We cannot determine the amount ultimately recoverable until leaching is completed. If our estimates prove inaccurate, our operating results may be less than anticipated. 14 Table of Contents Silver mining involves significant production and operational risks. Coeur may suffer from the failure to efficiently operate its mining projects. Silver mining involves significant degrees of risk, including those related to mineral exploration success, unexpected geological or mining conditions, the development of new deposits, climatic conditions, equipment and/or service failures, compliance with current or new governmental requirements, current availability of or delays in installing and commissioning plant and equipment, import or customs delays and other general operating risks. Problems may also arise due to the quality or failure of locally obtained equipment or interruptions to services (such as power, water, fuel or transport or processing capacity) or technical support, which results in the failure to achieve expected target dates for exploration or production activities and/or result in a requirement for greater expenditure. The right to export silver and gold may depend on obtaining certain licenses and quotas, the granting of which may be at the discretion of the relevant regulatory authorities. There may be delays in obtaining such licenses and quotas leading to the financial result of Coeur being adversely affected, and it is possible that from time to time export licenses may be refused. Many of these risks are outside of the ability of Coeur’s management to control and may result in a materially adverse effect on Coeur’s operations, financial position and cash flows. Mineral exploration and development inherently involves significant and irreducible financial risks. Coeur may suffer from the failure to find and develop profitable mines. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Unprofitable efforts may result from the failure to discover mineral deposits. Even if mineral deposits are found, such deposits may be insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production, or it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Mining companies rely on consultants and others for exploration, development, construction and operating expertise. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance and maintenance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing. Once a mineral deposit is developed, whether it will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; government regulations including taxes, royalties and land tenure; land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection; and mineral prices. Factors that affect adequacy of infrastructure include: reliability of roads, bridges, power sources and water supply; unusual or infrequent weather phenomena; sabotage; and government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure. All of these factors are highly cyclical. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination may result in not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Significant investment risks and operational costs are associated with our exploration, development and mining activities. These risks and costs may result in lower economic returns and may adversely affect our business. Our ability to sustain or increase our present production levels depends in part on successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, involves many risks and is frequently unproductive. If mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs 15 Table of Contents of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance and maintenance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing. Development projects may have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Development project items such as estimates of reserves, metal recoveries and cash operating costs are to a large extent based upon the interpretation of geologic data obtained from a limited number of drill holes and other sampling techniques and feasibility studies. Estimates of cash operating costs are then derived based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility and equipment costs, anticipated climate conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns of any and all development projects may materially differ from the costs and returns estimated, and accordingly, our business results of operations may be negatively affected. The Company’s marketing of metals concentrates could be adversely affected if there were to be a significant delay or disruption of purchases by its third-party smelter customers. In particular, a significant delay or disruption in our sales of concentrates as a result of the unexpected discontinuation of purchases by our smelter customers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Company currently markets its silver and gold concentrates to third-party smelters in Mexico, Japan and Australia. The loss of any one smelter customer could have a material adverse effect on us in the event of the possible unavailability of alternative smelters. No assurance can be given that alternative smelters would be timely available if the need for them were to arise, or that delays or disruptions in sales could not be experienced that would result in a materially adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Our silver and gold production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business. Our future silver and gold production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. It is our business strategy to conduct silver and gold exploratory activities at our existing mining and exploratory properties as well as at new exploratory projects, and to acquire silver and gold mining properties and businesses or reserves that possess minable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. We can provide no assurance that our silver and gold production in the future will not decline. Accordingly, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. There are significant hazards associated with our mining activities, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. To the extent we must pay the costs associated with such risks, our business may be negatively affected. The mining business is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although we maintain insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us or to other companies in the industry. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, and their related costs and delays may negatively affect our business. Coeur’s mining activities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing environmental protection, natural resources, prospecting, development, production, post-closure 16 Table of Contents reclamation, taxes, labor standards and occupational health and safety laws and regulations including mine safety, toxic substances and other matters related to Coeur’s business. Although these laws and regulations have never required Coeur to close any mine, the costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations are substantial. Possible future laws and regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of Coeur’s operations and delays in the development of its properties. Moreover, future developments in U.S. federal laws and regulations are currently especially difficult to predict due to the new President and Congress. These changes in the federal government may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to new laws, regulations and regulatory investigations. In addition, government approvals, approval of aboriginal people and permits are currently and may in the future be required in connection with the Palmarejo project. To the extent such approvals are required and not obtained, Coeur may be curtailed or prohibited from planned mining operations or continuing its planned exploration or development of mineral properties at the Palmarejo project. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations or in the exploration or development of mineral properties may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Compliance with environmental regulations and litigation based on environmental regulations could require significant expenditures. Environmental regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. To the extent Coeur is subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that it may incur to remedy environmental pollution would reduce funds otherwise available to it and could have a material adverse effect on the combined company. If Coeur is unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, it might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of Coeur’s past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in Coeur’s operations. Although Coeur believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Coeur cannot assure you that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of Coeur’s mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of federal Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regulations governing hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). If the EPA designates these wastes as hazardous under RCRA, Coeur would be required to expend additional amounts on the handling of such wastes and to make significant expenditures to construct hazardous waste disposal facilities. In addition, if any of these wastes causes contamination in or damage to the environment at a mining facility, such facility may be designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). Under CERCLA, any owner or operator of a Superfund site since the time of its contamination may be held liable and may be forced to undertake extensive remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Such owner or operator may also be liable to governmental entities for the cost of damages to natural resources, which may be substantial. 17 Table of Contents Additional regulations or requirements are also imposed upon Coeur’s tailings and waste disposal areas in Alaska under the federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Airborne emissions are subject to controls under air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act in Nevada and Alaska. Compliance with CERCLA, the CWA and state environmental laws could entail significant costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Coeur’s operations. In the context of environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, Coeur must comply with standards and regulations which entail significant costs and can entail significant delays. Such costs and delays could have a dramatic impact on Coeur’s operations. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Coeur’s operations. Coeur intends to fully comply with all applicable environmental regulations. We are required to obtain government permits to expand operations or begin new operations. The acquisition of such permits can be materially impacted by third-party litigation seeking to prevent the issuance of such permits. The costs and delays associated with such approvals could affect our operations, reduce our revenues and negatively affect our business as a whole. Mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations such as the Kensington development project and the Palmarejo project. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent on many factors that are out of our control. The governmental approval process may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted, and could cause us to not proceed with the development of a mine. Accordingly, this approval process could harm our results of operations. Reference is made to the discussion of the current litigation regarding the validity of the mine tailings permit at the Kensington property in Alaska that is set forth under the above risk factor entitled “We may have to record write-downs of long-lived assets, which could negatively impact our results of operations.” Our business depends on good relations with our employees. The Company could experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in production that could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2008, unions represented approximately 27.5% of our worldwide workforce. On that date, the Company had 13 employees at its Cerro Bayo mine and 137 employees at its Martha mine who were working under a collective bargaining agreement. The agreement covering the Cerro Bayo mine expires on December 21, 2010, and a collective bargaining agreement covering the Martha mine expires on June 1, 2010. Additionally, the Company had 134 employees at its San Bartolomé mine working under a labor agreement which became effective October 11, 2007 and does not have a fixed term. We are an international company and are exposed to risks in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Foreign instability or variances in foreign currencies may cause unforeseen losses, which may affect our business. Any foreign operation or investment is subject to political and economic risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may include exchange controls; extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; labor unrest; civil unrest; military repression; expropriation and nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts; illegal mining; changes in taxation policies; restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation; and laws or policies in the U.S. affecting foreign trade investment and taxation. Further, foreign operations or investment is subject to changes in government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico and Australia are the most significant foreign countries in which Coeur now directly or indirectly owns or operates mining properties or developmental projects. Coeur also conducts exploratory projects in these countries. Argentina and Bolivia, while currently economically and politically stable, have 18 Table of Contents experienced political instability, provincial government pressures on mining operations, currency value fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. It is uncertain at this time how new mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude may affect mining in these countries. Coeur may enter into agreements which require Coeur to purchase currencies of foreign countries in which Coeur does business in order to ensure fixed exchange rates. In the event that actual exchange rates vary from those set forth in any such hedge contracts, Coeur will experience U.S. dollar-denominated currency gains or losses. Continued worldwide economic volatility, future political instabilities or changes in the laws of foreign countries in which Coeur has significant operations or interests and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact its foreign operations and its business as a whole. Further, property ownership in a foreign country is generally subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Coeur is exposed to risks with respect to the legal systems in the countries in which it has significant operations or interests and resolutions of any disputes may adversely affect its business. Some of the jurisdictions in which Coeur currently and may in the future operate have less developed legal systems than would be found in more established economies like the United States. This may result in risks such as potential difficulties in obtaining effective legal redress in the courts of such jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute; a higher degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities; the lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; inconsistencies or conflicts between and within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; or relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters. In certain jurisdictions the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to licenses and agreements for business. These may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or delayed. There can be no assurance that joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements will not be adversely affected by the actions of government authorities or others, and the effectiveness of and enforcement of such arrangements in these jurisdictions cannot be assured. Any of our future acquisitions may result in significant risks, which may adversely affect our business. An important element of our business strategy is the opportunistic acquisition of silver and gold mines, properties and businesses or interests therein. While it is our practice to engage independent mining consultants to assist in evaluating and making acquisitions, any mining properties or interests therein we may acquire may not be developed profitably or, if profitable when acquired, that profitability might not be sustained. In connection with any future acquisitions, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities, resulting in increased interest expense, or dilution of the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We intend to seek shareholder approval for any such acquisitions to the extent required by applicable law, regulations or stock exchange rules. We cannot predict the impact of future acquisitions on the price of our business or our common stock. Unprofitable acquisitions, or additional indebtedness or issuances of securities in connection with such acquisitions, may impact the price of our common stock and negatively affect our results of operations. Coeur is continuously considering possible acquisitions of additional mining properties or interests therein that are located in other countries, and could be exposed to significant risks associated with any such acquisitions. In the ordinary course of Coeur’s business, Coeur is continuously considering the possible acquisition of additional significant mining properties or interests therein that may be located in countries other than those in which Coeur now has operations or interests. Consequently, in addition to the risks inherent in the valuation and acquisition of such mining properties, as well as the subsequent development, operation or ownership thereof, Coeur could be subject to additional risks in such countries as a result of governmental policies, economic instability, currency value fluctuations and other risks associated with the development, operation or ownership of mining properties or interests therein. Such risks could adversely affect Coeur’s results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties is uncertain. Accordingly, our prospects are uncertain for the future growth of our business. Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. Identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. Furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing silver and gold. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties or interests therein on terms we consider acceptable. As a result, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth. Third parties may dispute our unpatented mining claims, which could result in the discovery of defective titles and losses affecting our business. The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of Coeur’s property holdings in the United States, is often uncertain and may be contested. Although Coeur has attempted to acquire satisfactory title to undeveloped properties, Coeur, in accordance with mining industry practice, does not generally obtain title opinions until a decision is made to develop a property. As a result, some titles, particularly titles to undeveloped properties, may be defective. Defective title to any of Coeur’s mining claims could result in litigation, insurance claims and potential losses affecting its business as a whole. The acquisition of title to concessions and similar property interests is a detailed and time consuming process. Title to, and the area of, concessions and similar property interests may be disputed. No assurances can be given that title defects to the Palmarejo project do not exist. The Palmarejo project may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, interests or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be challenges to the title of any of the claims comprising the Palmarejo project that, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. A defect could result in Coeur losing all or a portion of its right, title, estate and interest in and to the properties to which the title defect relates. Also, while Coeur believes that the registration defects relating to certain non-material properties as described herein will be remedied, there can be no assurance as to timing or successful completion. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our common stock historically has fluctuated widely and been affected by our operating results and by many factors beyond our control. These factors include: market prices of silver and gold; general stock market conditions; interest rates; expectations regarding inflation; currency values; and global and regional political and economic conditions and other factors. Conversion of the Senior Secured Floating Rate Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Senior Secured Floating Rate Convertible Notes. To the extent we issue shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Senior Secured Floating Rate Convertible Notes, the conversion of some or all of such notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. Any sales in the public market of shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of shares of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Senior Secured Floating Rate Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of such notes could depress the price of shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock and may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of existing shareholders’ equity interests in the Company. We are authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series to establish the number of shares to be included in each series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and relative participating, optional, conversion and other special rights of the shares of each series as well as the qualification, limitations or restrictions on each series, including but not limited to the fixing or alteration of the dividend rights, dividend rate or rates, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, the redemption price or prices and the liquidation preferences of any wholly unissued series of shares of preferred stock, or any or all of them. Any series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future and has reserved for issuance a series of preferred stock in connection with our shareholder rights plan. If we issue additional equity securities, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter, in our bylaws and in our shareholder rights plan that could delay or prevent an acquisition of Coeur even if such an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could provide the ability to delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Some of these provisions (i) authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior shareholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; (ii) authorize the Board of Directors to increase or decrease the size of the board without shareholder approval; (iii) authorize a majority of the directors then in office to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors; and (iv) require that a “fair price” be paid in some business transactions. We have also implemented a shareholder rights plan which could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 