Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth information relating to important risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. References to “we,” “our” and “us” in these risk factors refer to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The market prices of silver and gold are volatile. If we experience low silver and gold prices it may result in decreased revenues and decreased net income or losses, and may negatively affect our business. Silver and gold are commodities. Their prices fluctuate, and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. Because we currently derive approximately 70% of our revenues from continuing operations from sales of silver, our earnings are primarily related to the price of this metal. 7 The market prices of silver (Handy & Harman) and gold (London Final) on February 12, 2008 were $17.32 and $917 per ounce, respectively. The prices of silver and gold may decline in the future. Factors that are generally understood to contribute to a decline in the price of silver include sales by private and government holders, and a general global economic slowdown. Coeur may also suffer from declines in mineral prices. Since 1999, Coeur has not engaged in any silver hedging activities and is currently not engaged in any gold hedging activities. Accordingly, Coeur has no protection from declines in mineral prices or currency fluctuations. If the prices of silver and gold are depressed for a sustained period and our net losses resume, we may be forced to suspend mining at one or more of our properties until the prices increase, and to record additional asset impairment write-downs. Any lost revenues, continued or increased net losses or additional asset impairment write-downs would adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness to fund our capital expenditures. We have historically financed our operations through the issuance of common stock and convertible debt, and may be required to incur additional indebtedness in the future. During 2008, we will have construction activities at the San Bartolomé, Palmarejo and Kensington projects as well as sustaining capital projects at our operating properties. Construction of all of these projects could require a total capital investment of approximately $398.5 million during 2008. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments combined with cash flow generated from operations will not be sufficient for us to make this level of capital investment and no assurance can be given that additional capital investments will not be required to be made at these or other projects. If we are unable to generate enough cash to finance such additional capital expenditures through operating cash flow and the issuance of common stock, we may be required to issue additional indebtedness or secure other forms of financing or delay the capital projects. Any additional indebtedness would increase our debt payment obligations, and may negatively impact our results of operations. Prior to 2005, we did not have sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges, which deficiency could occur in future periods. As a result of our net losses prior to 2005, our earnings were not adequate to satisfy fixed charges (i.e., interest, preferred stock dividends and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest) in each of those periods prior to 2005. The amounts by which earnings were inadequate to cover fixed charges were approximately $80.8 million in 2002, $63.9 million in 2003 and $22.7 million in 2004. Earnings have been sufficient to cover fixed charges subsequent to 2004. We are required to make fixed payments on the $180 million principal amount of our 11/4% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024, requiring annual interest payments of approximately $2.25 million until their maturity. We expect to satisfy our fixed charges and other expense obligations in the future from cash flow from operations and, if cash flow from operations is insufficient, from working capital, which amounted to approximately $152.4 million at December 31, 2007. Prior to 2005, we experienced negative cash flow from operating activities. The amount of net cash used in our operating activities amounted to approximately $8.5 million in 2002, $5.1 million in 2003 and $18.6 million in 2004. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we generated $40.1 million and $91.2 million, respectively, of operating cash flow. The availability of future cash flow from operations or working capital to fund the payment of interest on the notes and other fixed charges will be dependent upon numerous factors, including our results of operations, silver and gold prices, levels and costs of production at our mining properties and the amount of our capital expenditures and expenditures for acquisitions, developmental and exploratory activities. 8 We may have to record write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”) established accounting standards for impairment of the value of long-lived assets such as mining properties. SFAS 144 requires a company to review the recoverability of the cost of its assets by estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment, measured by comparing an asset’s carrying value to its fair value, must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows, and recognizing impairment write-downs could negatively impact our results of operations. If silver or gold prices decline or we fail to control production costs or realize the minable ore reserves at our mining properties, we may be required to recognize asset write-downs. We also may record other types of additional mining property charges in the future to the extent a property is sold by us for a price less than the carrying value of the property, or if reclamation liabilities have to be increased in connection with the closure and reclamation of a property. Additional write-downs of mining properties could negatively impact our results of operations. The Kensington property has been the subject of litigation involving a permit required to complete construction of a required tailings facility. On September 12, 2005 three environmental groups (“Plaintiffs”) filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Alaska against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“Corps of Engineers”) and the U.S. Forest Service (“USFS”) seeking to invalidate the permit issued to Coeur Alaska, Inc. for the Company’s Kensington mine. The Plaintiffs claim the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) Section 404 permit issued by the Corps of Engineers authorizing the deposition of mine tailings into Lower Slate Lake conflicts with the CWA. They additionally claim the USFS’s approval of the Amended Plan of Operations is arbitrary and capricious because it relies on the 404 permit issued by the Corps of Engineers. Following the District Court’s remand of the Section 404 permit to the Corps of Engineers for further review, the Corps reinstated the Company’s permit on March 29, 2006. The lawsuit challenging the permit was re-opened on April 6, 2006; Coeur Alaska filed its answer to the Amended Complaint; and Coeur Alaska, the State of Alaska, and Goldbelt, Inc., a local native corporation, were granted Defendant-Intervenor status to join the agencies in their defense of the permit. On August 4, 2006, the Federal District Court in Alaska dismissed the Plaintiffs’ challenge and upheld the Section 404 permit. On August 7, 2006 the Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal of the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (“Ninth Circuit Court”) and on August 9, 2006 the Plaintiffs additionally filed a Motion for Injunction Pending Appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court. The Ninth Circuit Court granted a temporary injunction pending appeal on August 24, 2006, enjoining certain activities relating to the lake tailings facility. On May 22, 2007 the Ninth Circuit Court reversed the District Court’s August 4, 2006 decision which had upheld the Company’s 404 permit and issued its opinion that remanded the case to the District Court with instructions to vacate the Company’s 404 permit as well as the USFS Record of Decision approving the general tailings disposal plan as well as the Goldbelt 404 permit to construct the Cascade Point Marine Facility. On August 20, 2007, Coeur Alaska filed a Petition for Rehearing En Banc with the Ninth Circuit Court, as did the State of Alaska and Goldbelt, Inc. The Department of Justice, on behalf of the Corps of Engineers, and USFS additionally filed a limited Petition for Rehearing with the Ninth Circuit panel seeking reconsideration of the mandate of the May 22, 2007 panel decision. On October 29, 2007, the Ninth Circuit denied the Petitions for Rehearing En Banc. On November 14, 2007 the Ninth Circuit granted a stay of the mandate pending further appeal to the Supreme Court, subject to the development of a reclamation plan for the lake area. The Company, and the State of Alaska, filed Petitions for Certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States on January 28, 2008. The Company cannot now predict the potential for obtaining further appeal or if it will prevail upon appeal if one is granted. 9 This litigation has contributed to an increase in capital costs. While the Company cannot now predict with certainty the outcome of this litigation, it believes it should ultimately prevail. In the event that the Company does not prevail, it could be necessary to seek an alternate site for the tailings disposal facility. The Company has identified an alternate site which it believes can be permitted and has submitted a modified plan to the USFS. Based upon the Company’s current estimates, an impairment writedown could be necessary should the expectation of the long-term price for gold decrease below approximately $606 per ounce. As of December 31, 2007, the carrying value of the Kensington project’s long-lived assets was $298.2 million. Additionally, the value allocated to Palmarejo’s long-lived assets will be subject to assessments of recoverability under SFAS 144 and these assessments could result in writedowns of carrying values in future periods. Coeur may not realize the cost savings and other benefits it currently anticipates due to challenges associated with integrating operations, personnel and other aspects of the companies and due to liabilities that may exist at Bolnisi and Palmarejo. Coeur’s acquisition of Bolnisi and Palmarejo reflected its expectation that the acquisitions will result in increased metal production, earnings and cash flow for the combined company. These anticipated increases will depend in part on whether Coeur’s, Bolnisi’s and Palmarejo’s operations can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner, and whether the project development in fact produces the benefits anticipated. Most operational and strategic decisions, and certain staffing decisions, with respect to the combined company have not yet been made and may not have been fully identified. These decisions and the integration of the three companies will present significant challenges to management, including the integration of systems and personnel of the three companies, and special risks, including possible unanticipated liabilities, significant one-time write-offs or restructuring charges, unanticipated costs, and the loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that there will be operational or other synergies realized by the combined company, or that the integration of the three companies’ operations, management and cultures will be timely or effectively accomplished, or ultimately will be successful in increasing earnings and reducing costs. In addition, the integration of Bolnisi and Palmarejo may subject Coeur to liabilities existing at one or both of Bolnisi and Palmarejo, some of which may be unknown. While Coeur has conducted due diligence on the operations of Bolnisi and Palmarejo, there can be no guarantee that Coeur is aware of any and all liabilities of Bolnisi and Palmarejo. These liabilities, and any additional risks and uncertainties related to the acquisitions not currently known to Coeur or that Coeur may currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact Coeur’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Palmarejo project is a development-stage project and involves significant risks associated with development and commencement of commercial production. There can be no assurance that significant losses will not occur at the Palmarejo project in the near future or that the Palmarejo project will be profitable in the future. Coeur’s operating expenses and capital expenditures may increase in subsequent years as needed consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing exploration, development and commercial production of the Palmarejo project and any other properties Coeur may acquire are added. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of ongoing exploration and development and the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, which are beyond Coeur’s control. While Coeur expects production at the Palmarejo project to commence in 2009, there can be no assurance that this timetable will be met. The development of the Palmarejo project and any other properties Coeur may acquire will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time-consuming exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that Coeur will generate any revenues or achieve profitability at the Palmarejo project and any other properties Coeur may acquire. 10 Recently discovered settlement and subsidence issues at the Palmarejo project may increase development costs and delay the start of production. In early August 2007, Coeur representatives observed previously unnoticed ground settlement and subsidence in three main areas: the lower plant site, the upper plant site, and the site where the power plant is to be located. The initial engineering review conducted by Coeur technical personnel as well as third party engineering consultants concluded that the settlement and subsidence was occurring primarily due to issues with the original compaction and placement of fill material. This settlement became visible once heavy rainfall was experienced. Since that time, Coeur’s third party engineering consultants have conducted more extensive on-site analysis and have provided Coeur with a detailed report based on its review, which recommends specific remedial actions that should be initiated which includes the relocation of a substantial section of the process plant facilities to an identified alternate site. Coeur estimates that these remedial actions may cost up to $15 million, which is an estimate endorsed by Coeur’s third party engineering consultants. Coeur anticipates production from the Palmarejo project to commence in the first quarter of 2009, which takes into account the estimated time to complete these remedial activities. There can be no assurance that these preliminary estimates will prove accurate, and any inaccuracy in such estimates could materially adversely impact the development of the Palmarejo project and Coeur’s financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues and income (or loss) from our interest in the Endeavor and Broken Hill mines are dependent in part upon the performance of the operators of the mine. In May and September 2005, we acquired silver production and reserves at the Endeavor and Broken Hill mines in Australia, respectively. These mines are owned and operated by other mining companies. The Company’s revenues and income (or loss) from its interest in the silver production at these mines are dependent in part upon the performance of those operators and such mines. The estimation of ore reserves is imprecise and depends upon subjective factors. Estimated ore reserves may not be realized in actual production. Our operating results may be negatively affected by inaccurate estimates. The ore reserve figures presented in our public filings are estimates made by our technical personnel. Reserve estimates are a function of geological and engineering analyses that require us to make assumptions about production costs and silver and gold market prices. Reserve estimation is an imprecise and subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. Assumptions about silver and gold market prices are subject to great uncertainty as those prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market prices of silver or gold may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to reduce reserve estimates, discontinue development or mining at one or more of our properties, or write down assets as impaired. Should we encounter mineralization or geologic formations at any of our mines or projects different from those we predicted, we may adjust our reserve estimates and alter our mining plans. Either of these alternatives may adversely affect our actual production and operating results. We based our ore reserve determinations as of December 31, 2007 on a long-term silver price average of $11 per ounce, with the exception of the Endeavor mine which uses $15 per ounce and the Broken Hill mine which uses $13.50 per ounce of silver, and a long-term gold price average of $600 per ounce for all properties with the exception of the Kensington property which used a gold price of $550 per ounce. On February 12, 2008 silver and gold prices were $17.32 per ounce and $917 per ounce, respectively. The estimation of the ultimate recovery of metals contained within the Rochester heap leach pad inventory is inherently inaccurate and subjective and requires the use of estimation techniques. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations. The Rochester mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract silver and gold from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting silver and gold by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained silver and gold, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. 11 The key stages in the conversion of ore into silver and gold are (i) the blasting process in which the ore is broken into large pieces; (ii) the processing of the ore through a crushing facility that breaks it into smaller pieces; (iii) the transportation of the crushed ore to the leach pad where the leaching solution is applied; (iv) the collection of the leach solution; (v) subjecting the leach solution to the precipitation process, in which gold and silver is converted back to a fine solid; (vi) the conversion of the precipitate into doré; and (vii) the conversion by a third party refinery of the doré into refined silver and gold bullion. We use several integrated steps to scientifically measure the metal content of ore placed on the leach pads during the key stages. As the ore body is drilled in preparation for the blasting process, samples of the drill residue are assayed to determine estimated quantities of contained metal. We estimate the quantity of ore by utilizing global positioning satellite survey techniques. We then process the ore through a crushing facility where the output is again weighed and sampled for assaying. A metallurgical reconciliation with the data collected from the mining operation is completed with appropriate adjustments made to previous estimates. We then transport the crushed ore to the leach pad for application of the leaching solution. As the leach solution is collected from the leach pads, we continuously sample for assaying. We measure the quantity of leach solution with flow meters throughout the leaching and precipitation process. After precipitation, the product is converted to doré, which is the final product produced by the mine. We again weigh, sample and assay the doré. Finally, a third party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of silver and gold available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. Our reported inventories include metals estimated to be contained in the ore on leach pad of $50.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Of this amount, $25.9 million is reported as a current asset and $25.0 million is reported as a noncurrent asset. The distinction between current and noncurrent is based upon the expected length of time necessary for the leaching process to remove the metals from the crushed ore. The historical cost of the metal that is expected to be extracted within twelve months is classified as current and the historical cost of metals contained within the crushed ore that will be extracted beyond twelve months is classified as noncurrent. The ore on leach pad inventory is stated at actual production costs incurred to produce and place ore on the leach pad during the current period, adjusted for the effects on monthly production costs of abnormal production levels. The estimate of both the ultimate recovery expected over time, and the quantity of metal that may be extracted relative to such twelve month period, requires the use of estimates which are inherently inaccurate since they rely upon laboratory test work. Test work consists of 60 day leach columns from which we project metal recoveries into the future. The quantities of metal contained in the ore are based upon actual weights and assay analysis. The rate at which the leach process extracts gold and silver from the crushed ore is based upon laboratory column tests and actual experience occurring over approximately nineteen years of leach pad operation at the Rochester mine. The assumptions we use to measure metal content during each stage of the inventory conversion process includes estimated recovery rates based on laboratory testing and assaying. We periodically review our estimates compared to actual experience and revise our estimates when appropriate. The length of time necessary to achieve our currently estimated ultimate recoveries of between 59% and 61.5% for silver, depending on the area being leached, and 93% for gold is estimated to be between 5 and 10 years. In August 2007, the Company terminated mining and crushing operations as ore reserves were fully mined. Residual heap leach activities are expected to continue through 2011. When we began leach operations in 1986, based solely on laboratory testing, we estimated the ultimate recovery of silver and gold at 50% and 80%, respectively. Since 1986, we have adjusted the expected ultimate recovery three times (once in each of 1989, 1997 and 2003) based upon actual experience gained from leach operations. In 2003, we increased our estimated recoveries for silver and gold, respectively, to between 59% and 61.5% for silver, depending on the area being leached, and 93% for gold. The leach cycle at the Rochester Mine requires leaching to approximately the year 2011 for all recoverable metal to be recovered. 12 If our estimate of ultimate recovery requires adjustment, the impact upon our inventory valuation and upon our income statement would be as follows: Positive/Negative Positive/Negative Change in Silver Recovery Change in Gold Recovery 1% 2% 3% 1% 2% 3% Quantity of recoverable ounces 1.7 million 3.5 million 5.2 million 13,240 26,480 39,720 Positive impact on future cost of production per silver equivalent ounce for increases in recovery rates $ 1.68 $ 2.78 $ 3.55 $ 0.82 $ 1.49 $ 2.04 Negative impact on future cost of production per silver equivalent ounce for decreases in recovery rates $ (2.93 ) $ (9.30 ) $ (33.77 ) $ (1.04 ) $ (2.38 ) $ (4.21 ) Inventories of ore on leach pads are valued based upon actual production costs incurred to produce and place such ore on the leach pad during the current period, adjusted for the effects on monthly production costs of abnormal production levels, less costs allocated to minerals recovered through the leach process. The costs consist of those production activities occurring at the mine site and include the costs, including depreciation, associated with mining, crushing and precipitation circuits. In addition, refining is provided by a third party refiner to place the metal extracted from the leach pad in a saleable form. These additional costs are considered in the valuation of inventory. Negative changes in our inventory valuations and correspondingly on our income statement would have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our estimates of current and non-current inventories may not be realized in actual production and operating results, which may negatively affect our business. We use estimates, based on prior production results and experiences, to determine whether heap leach inventory will be recovered more than one year in the future, and is non-current inventory, or will be recovered within one year, and is current inventory. The estimates involve assumptions that may not prove to be consistent with our actual production and operating results. We cannot determine the amount ultimately recoverable until leaching is completed. If our estimates prove inaccurate, our operating results may be less than anticipated. Silver mining involves significant production and operational risks. Coeur may suffer from the failure to efficiently operate its mining projects. Silver mining involves significant degrees of risk, including those related to mineral exploration success, unexpected geological or mining conditions, the development of new deposits, climatic conditions, equipment and/or service failures, compliance with current or new governmental requirements, current availability of or delays in installing and commissioning plant and equipment, import or customs delays and other general operating risks. Problems may also arise due to the quality or failure of locally obtained equipment or interruptions to services (such as power, water, fuel or transport or processing capacity) or technical support, which results in the failure to achieve expected target dates for exploration or production activities and/or result in a requirement for greater expenditure. The right to export silver and gold may depend on obtaining certain licenses and quotas, the granting of which may be at the discretion of the relevant regulatory authorities. There may be delays in obtaining such licenses and quotas leading to the financial result of Coeur being adversely affected, and it is possible that from time to time export licenses may be refused. Many of these risks are outside of the ability of Coeur’s management to control and may result in a materially adverse effect on Coeur’s operations, financial position and cash flows. 13 Mineral exploration and development inherently involves significant and irreducible financial risks. Coeur may suffer from the failure to find and develop profitable mines. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Unprofitable efforts may result from the failure to discover mineral deposits. Even if mineral deposits are found, such deposits may be insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production, or it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Mining companies rely on consultants and others for exploration, development, construction and operating expertise. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance and maintenance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing. Once a mineral deposit is developed, whether it will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; government regulations including taxes, royalties and land tenure; land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection; and mineral prices. Factors that affect adequacy of infrastructure include: reliability of roads, bridges, power sources and water supply; unusual or infrequent weather phenomena; sabotage; and government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure. All of these factors are highly cyclical. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination may result in not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Significant investment risks and operational costs are associated with our exploration, development and mining activities, such as San Bartolomé, Kensington and Palmarejo. These risks and costs may result in lower economic returns and may adversely affect our business. Our ability to sustain or increase our present production levels depends in part on successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, involves many risks and is frequently unproductive. If mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance and maintenance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing. Development projects, such as San Bartolomé, Kensington and Palmarejo, may have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Development project items such as estimates of reserves, metal recoveries and cash operating costs are to a large extent based upon the interpretation of geologic data obtained from a limited number of drill holes and other sampling techniques and feasibility studies. Estimates of cash operating costs are then derived based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility and equipment costs, anticipated climate conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns of any and all development projects may materially differ from the costs and returns estimated, and accordingly, our business results of operations may be negatively affected. 14 The Company’s marketing of metals concentrates could be adversely affected if there were to be a significant delay or disruption of purchases by its third party smelter customers. In particular, a significant delay or disruption in our sales of concentrates as a result of the unexpected discontinuation of purchases by our smelter customers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Company currently markets its silver and gold concentrates to third party smelters in Mexico, Japan and Australia. The loss of any one smelter customer could have a material adverse effect on us in the event of the possible unavailability of alternative smelters. No assurance can be given that alternative smelters would be timely available if the need for them were to arise, or that delays or disruptions in sales could not be experienced that would result in a materially adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Our silver and gold production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business. Our future silver and gold production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. It is our business strategy to conduct silver and gold exploratory activities at our existing mining and exploratory properties as well as at new exploratory projects, and to acquire silver and gold mining properties and businesses or reserves that possess minable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. We can provide no assurance that our silver and gold production in the future will not decline. Accordingly, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. There are significant hazards associated with our mining activities, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. To the extent we must pay the costs associated with such risks, our business may be negatively affected. The mining business is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although we maintain insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us or to other companies in the industry. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, and their related costs and delays may negatively affect our business. Coeur’s mining activities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing environmental protection, natural resources, prospecting, development, production, post-closure reclamation, taxes, labor standards and occupational health and safety laws and regulations including mine safety, toxic substances and other matters related to Coeur’s business. Although these laws and regulations have never required Coeur to close any mine, the costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations are substantial. Possible future laws and regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of Coeur’s operations and delays in the development of its properties. 15 In addition, government approvals, approval of aboriginal people and permits are currently and may in the future be required in connection with the Palmarejo project. To the extent such approvals are required and not obtained, Coeur may be curtailed or prohibited from planned mining operations or continuing its planned exploration or development of mineral properties at the Palmarejo project. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations or in the exploration or development of mineral properties may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Compliance with environmental regulations and litigation based on environmental regulations could require significant expenditures. Environmental regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. To the extent Coeur is subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that it may incur to remedy environmental pollution would reduce funds otherwise available to it and could have a material adverse effect on the combined company. If Coeur is unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, it might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of Coeur’s past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in Coeur’s operations. Although Coeur believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Coeur cannot assure you that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of Coeur’s mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of federal Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regulations governing hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). If the EPA designates these wastes as hazardous under RCRA, Coeur would be required to expend additional amounts on the handling of such wastes and to make significant expenditures to construct hazardous waste disposal facilities. In addition, if any of these wastes causes contamination in or damage to the environment at a mining facility, such facility may be designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). Under CERCLA, any owner or operator of a Superfund site since the time of its contamination may be held liable and may be forced to undertake extensive remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Such owner or operator may also be liable to governmental entities for the cost of damages to natural resources, which may be substantial. Additional regulations or requirements are also imposed upon Coeur’s tailings and waste disposal areas in Alaska under the federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Airborne emissions are subject to controls under air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act in Nevada and Alaska. 16 Compliance with CERCLA, the CWA and state environmental laws could entail significant costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Coeur’s operations. In the context of environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, Coeur must comply with standards and regulations which entail significant costs and can entail significant delays. Such costs and delays could have a dramatic impact on Coeur’s operations. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Coeur’s operations. Coeur intends to fully comply with all applicable environmental regulations. We are required to obtain government permits to expand operations or begin new operations. The acquisition of such permits can be materially impacted by third party litigation seeking to prevent the issuance of such permits. The costs and delays associated with such approvals could affect our operations, reduce our revenues, and negatively affect our business as a whole. Mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations such as the Kensington development project and the Palmarejo project. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent on many factors that are out of our control. The governmental approval process may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted, and could cause us to not proceed with the development of a mine. Accordingly, this approval process could harm our results of operations. Reference is made to the discussion of the current litigation regarding the validity of the mine tailings permit at the Kensington property in Alaska that is set forth under the above risk factor entitled “We may have to record additional write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations.” Meanwhile, although Palmarejo currently holds all consents that it requires in order to carry out its current drilling and development program on the Palmarejo project, Coeur cannot be certain that it will receive the necessary permits on acceptable terms to conduct further exploration and to develop the Palmarejo project in accordance with its pre-feasibility study. The failure to obtain such permits, or delays in obtaining such permits, could increase costs and delay activities, and could adversely affect the Palmarejo project. Our business depends on good relations with our employees. The Company could experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in production that could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2007, unions represented approximately 44% of our worldwide workforce. On that date, the Company had 316 employees at its Cerro Bayo mine and 120 employees at its Martha mine who were working under a collective bargaining agreement. The agreement covering the Cerro Bayo mine expires on December 21, 2010 and a collective bargaining agreement covering the Martha mine expires on June 1, 2008. Additionally, the Company had 21 employees at its San Bartolomé project working under a labor agreement which does not have a fixed term. We are an international company and are exposed to risks in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Foreign instability or variances in foreign currencies may cause unforeseen losses, which may affect our business. Any foreign operations or investment is subject to political and economic risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may include exchange controls; extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; labor unrest; civil unrest; military repression; expropriation and nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts; illegal mining; changes in taxation policies; restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation, and laws or policies in the U.S. affecting foreign trade 17 investment and taxation. Further, foreign operations or investment is subject to changes in government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Chile, Argentina, Bolivia and Australia are the most significant foreign countries in which Coeur now directly or indirectly owns or operates mining properties or developmental projects. Coeur also conducts exploratory projects in these countries. With the acquisition of Palmarejo and Bolnisi, Coeur also owns a major mining operation in Mexico. Argentina and Bolivia, while currently economically and politically stable, have experienced political instability, provincial government pressures on mining operations, currency value fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. It is uncertain at this time how new mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude may affect mining in these countries. Coeur may enter into agreements which require Coeur to purchase currencies of foreign countries in which Coeur does business in order to ensure fixed exchange rates. In the event that actual exchange rates vary from those set forth in the hedge contracts, Coeur will experience U.S. dollar-denominated currency gains or losses. Future economic or political instabilities or changes in the laws of foreign countries in which Coeur has significant operations or interests and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact its foreign operations and its business as a whole. Further, property ownership in a foreign country is generally subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Coeur is exposed to risks with respect to the legal systems in the countries in which it has significant operations or interests, and resolutions of any disputes may adversely affect its business. Some of the jurisdictions in which Coeur currently and may in the future operate have less developed legal systems than would be found in more established economies like the United States. This may result in risks such as potential difficulties in obtaining effective legal redress in the courts of such jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute; a higher degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities; the lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; inconsistencies or conflicts between and within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; or relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters. In certain jurisdictions the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to licenses and agreements for business. These may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or delayed. There can be no assurance that joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements will not be adversely affected by the actions of government authorities or others and the effectiveness of and enforcement of such arrangements in these jurisdictions cannot be assured. Any of our future acquisitions may result in significant risks, which may adversely affect our business. An important element of our business strategy is the opportunistic acquisition of silver and gold mines, properties and businesses or interests therein. While it is our practice to engage independent mining consultants to assist in evaluating and making acquisitions, any mining properties or interests therein we may acquire may not be developed profitably or, if profitable when acquired, that profitability might not be sustained. In connection with any future acquisitions, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities, resulting in increased interest expense, or dilution of the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We intend to seek shareholder approval for any such acquisitions to the extent required by applicable law, regulations or stock exchange rules. We cannot predict the impact of future acquisitions on the price of our business or our common stock. Unprofitable acquisitions, or additional indebtedness or issuances of securities in connection with such acquisitions, may impact the price of our common stock and negatively affect our results of operations. 18 Coeur is continuously considering possible acquisitions of additional mining properties or interests therein that are located in other countries, and could be exposed to significant risks associated with any such acquisitions. In the ordinary course of Coeur’s business, Coeur is continuously considering the possible acquisition of additional significant mining properties or interests therein that may be located in countries other than those in which Coeur now has operations or interests. Consequently, in addition to the risks inherent in the valuation and acquisition of such mining properties, as well as the subsequent development, operation or ownership thereof, Coeur could be subject to additional risks in such countries as a result of governmental policies, economic instability, currency value fluctuations and other risks associated with the development, operation or ownership of mining properties or interests therein. Such risks could adversely affect Coeur’s results of operations. Our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties is uncertain. Accordingly, our prospects are uncertain for the future growth of our business. Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. Identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. Furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing silver and gold. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties or interests therein on terms we consider acceptable. As a result, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth. Third parties may dispute our unpatented mining claims, which could result in the discovery of defective titles and losses affecting our business. The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of Coeur’s property holdings in the United States, is often uncertain and may be contested. Although Coeur has attempted to acquire satisfactory title to undeveloped properties, Coeur, in accordance with mining industry practice, does not generally obtain title opinions until a decision is made to develop a property. As a result, some titles, particularly titles to undeveloped properties, may be defective. Defective title to any of Coeur’s mining claims could result in litigation, insurance claims, and potential losses affecting its business as a whole. The acquisition of title to concessions and similar property interests is a detailed and time consuming process. Title to, and the area of, concessions and similar property interests may be disputed. No assurances can be given that title defects to the Palmarejo project do not exist. The Palmarejo project may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, interests or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of any of the claims comprising the Palmarejo project that, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. A defect could result in Coeur losing all or a portion of its right, title, estate and interest in and to the properties to which the title defect relates. Also, while Coeur believes that the registration defects relating to certain non-material properties as described herein will be remedied; there can be no assurance as to timing or successful completion. Coeur does not own all of the concessions comprising the Palmarejo project, and Coeur’s failure to comply with its contractual commitments on such properties may result in their loss. Planet Gold, S.A. de C.V., a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Palmarejo, is the registered owner of most but not all of the concessions comprising the Palmarejo project. If Coeur fails to meet payments or work commitments on these properties, Coeur may lose its interests in a portion of the Palmarejo project or forfeit some of the concessions. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 