Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our Business 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Stockholders 15 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 100 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B. Other Information 102 PART III. Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11. Executive Compensation 102 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 102 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 102 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 102 SIGNATURES 104 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 105 SCHEDULE II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 107 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges Subsidiaries of Registrant Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Certification of the CEO and the CFO 3 Table of Contents PART I CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties and reflect the Company’s judgment as of the date of this report. Specific forward-looking statements are identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical and anticipated results. Such risks and uncertainties include the detection by our Audit Committee’s investigation of all principal improper activities of personnel of Checkpoint Systems Japan Co. Ltd., our Japanese sales subsidiary, or other employees of the Company; the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting and their conformity to applicable requirements; the risk that we could, in the future, identify one or more additional material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting; the impact of the investigation on the Company’s business operations, its relationships with business partners, employee relations and its pipeline; and anticipated costs and expenses of the investigation and related activities. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks and uncertainties, including additional unanticipated accounting issues or audit issues; inability of the Company or our independent registered public accounting firm to confirm financial information or data; unanticipated accounting or financial reporting issues that require additional efforts, procedures, review or investigation; our ability to address fully any remaining issues with respect to our internal control over financial reporting; the detection of wrongdoing or improper activities not detected and covered by the investigation; the impact upon operations of investigations, legal compliance matters or internal controls review, improvement and remediation; difficulties in controlling expenses, including costs of investigations, legal compliance matters or internal controls review, improvement and remediation; impact of changes in management or staff levels; and other risks and uncertainties discussed more fully in this report under Item 1A. “Risk Factors Related to Our Business” and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein. Item 1. BUSINESS Checkpoint Systems, Inc. is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of integrated system solutions for retail security, labeling and merchandising. We provide technology-driven integrated supply chain solutions to brand, track, and secure goods for retailers and consumer product manufacturers worldwide. Retailers and manufacturers have become increasingly focused on identifying and protecting assets that are moving through the supply chain. To address this market opportunity, we have built the necessary infrastructure to be a single source for identification and shrink management solutions worldwide. We are a leading provider of electronic article surveillance (EAS) systems and tags using radio frequency (RF) and electromagnetic (EM) technology, security source tagging, branding tags and labels for apparel, retail display systems (RDS), and hand-held labeling systems (HLS). Our labeling systems and services are designed to consolidate tag and label requirements to improve efficiency, reduce costs, and furnish value-added solutions for customers across many markets and industries. Applications for printed tags and labels include brand identification, automatic identification (auto-ID), retail security, and pricing and promotional labels. We have achieved substantial international growth, primarily through acquisitions, and now operate directly in 31 countries. Products are principally developed and manufactured in-house and sold through direct distribution and reseller channels. COMPANY HISTORY Founded in 1969, we were incorporated in Pennsylvania as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logistics Industries Corporation (Logistics). In 1977, Logistics, pursuant to the terms of its merger into Lydall, Inc., distributed our common stock to Logistics’ shareholders as a dividend. Historically, we have expanded our business both domestically and internationally through acquisitions, internal growth using wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the utilization of independent distributors. In 1993 and 1995, we completed two key acquisitions which gave us direct access into Western Europe. We acquired ID Systems International BV and ID Systems Europe BV in 1993 and Actron Group Limited in 1995. These companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of EAS systems throughout Europe. 4 Table of Contents In December 1999, we acquired Meto AG, a German multinational corporation and a leading provider of value-added labeling solutions for article identification and security. The acquisition doubled our revenues and provided us with an increased breadth of product offerings and global reach. In January 2001, we acquired A.W. Printing Inc., a Houston, Texas-based printer of tags, labels, and packaging material for the apparel industry. In January 2006, we completed the sale of our barcode systems business to SATO, a global leader in barcode printing, labeling, and Electronic Product Code (EPC)/Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) solutions. In November 2006, we acquired ADS Worldwide (ADS). Based in Hull, England, ADS is an established supplier of tags, labels and trim to apparel manufacturers, retailers and brands around the world. ADS provides us with new technological and production capabilities and is in line with our strategy to grow our CheckNet® service bureau business to create increased value for our customers and stockholders. Products and Offerings Our products and services are organized into three operating segments: security, labeling services, and retail merchandising. Each segment offers an assortment of products and services that in combination are designed to provide a comprehensive, single source solution to help retailers, manufacturers, and distributors identify, track, and protect their assets throughout the entire supply chain. Each segment and their respective products and services are described below. SECURITY Our largest business is retail security. Our Company’s diversified security product lines are designed to help retailers prevent inventory losses caused by theft (both by customers and employees) and reduce selling costs through lower staff requirements. Our products facilitate the open display of consumer goods, which allows retailers to maximize sales opportunities through impulse buying. Offering our own proprietary RF-EAS and EM-EAS technologies, we believe that we hold a significant share of worldwide EAS installations. EAS revenues accounted for 56%, 58%, and 55% of our 2006, 2005, and 2004 total revenues, respectively. Systems for closed-circuit television (CCTV), fire and intrusion, and access control also fall within the security business segment. For 2006, 2005, and 2004, the CCTV business represented 17%, 17%, and 20% of our revenues, respectively. No other product group in this segment accounted for as much as 10% of our revenues. These broad and flexible product lines, marketed and serviced by our extensive sales and service organizations, have helped us emerge as a preferred supplier to premier retailers around the world. Retail security represented approximately 73% of total revenues in 2006. Electronic Article Surveillance EAS systems have been designed to act as a deterrent to control the problem of merchandise theft in retail stores and libraries. Our diversified product lines are designed to help reduce both customer and employee theft, reduce inventory shrinkage, and enable retailers to capitalize on consumer impulse buying by openly displaying high-margin and high-cost items. We offer a wide variety of RF-EAS and EM-EAS solutions to meet the varied requirements of retail store configurations for multiple market segments worldwide. Our EAS systems are primarily comprised of sensors and deactivation units, which respond to or act upon our tags and labels. We also market an extensive line of reusable security tags that protect apparel items as well as entertainment products. Under our source tagging program, tags can be embedded in products or packaging at the point-of-manufacture. Our EAS products are designed and built to comply with applicable Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and European Community (EC) regulations governing radio frequencies (RF), signal strengths, and other factors. CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We offer a broad line of closed-circuit television products providing a high-value systems solution package for retail environments. Our video surveillance solutions, including digital video technology, address shoplifting and internal theft as well as customer and employee safety and security needs. The product line consists of fixed and high-speed pan/tilt/zoom camera systems, programmable switcher controls, time-lapse recording, and remote video surveillance. 5 Table of Contents Our fire and intrusion systems provide life safety and property protection, completing the line of loss prevention solutions. In addition to the system installations, we offer a U.S.-based 24-hour Central Station Monitoring Service. Access Control Systems In 2005 we signed an agreement to divest our Access Control business to better position us for future growth in our core business segments. This business, which represented less than 1% of our revenues, was divested on December 31, 2005. LABELING SERVICES Labeling services is our second largest business, generating approximately 15% of our revenues in 2006. All participants in the retail supply chain are concerned with maximizing efficiency. Reducing time-to-market requires refined production and logistics systems to ensure just-in-time delivery, as well as shorter development, design, and production cycles. Services range from full-color branding labels to tracking labels and, ultimately, fully-integrated labels that include an EAS or a RFID circuit. This integration is based on the critical objective of supporting the rapid delivery of goods to market while reducing losses, whether through misdirection, tracking failure, theft or counterfeiting, and to reduce labor costs by tagging and labeling products at the source. We support these objectives with our high-quality tag and label production, a global service bureau network of e-commerce-enabled capabilities (Check-Net®), and EAS and RFID technologies. Increasingly, the market is moving toward more sophisticated tag solutions that incorporate RFID components and that will automate many aspects of supply chain tracking and facilitate many new merchandising enhancements for suppliers and consumers. Check-Net® revenues represented 13%, 9%, and 9% of our total revenues for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. No other product in this segment represented more than 10% of revenues. Check-Net® (Service Bureau) We operate a global service bureau network of more than 30 locations worldwide which supplies customers with customized retail apparel tags and labels, typically to the location where the retail goods are manufactured. A service bureau imprints variable pricing and article identification data and barcoding information onto price and apparel branding tags. Check-Net’s® web-enabled capabilities provide on-time, on-demand printing of custom labels with variable data. Our Check-Net® service bureau network is one of the most extensive in the industry, and its ability to offer integrated branding, barcode, and EAS security tags places it among just a handful of suppliers of this caliber in the world. CheckNet’s® printing capacity and service bureau network expanded in November 2006 with the acquisition of ADS. In addition to our own label integration and service bureau capabilities, we have strategic working relationships with other label integrators. Intelligent Library Systems We have established a product line of sophisticated RFID-based intelligent library solutions that offer strong features and benefits compared to competitive offerings. Our Intelligent Library System®, which was released in 1999, is currently installed in more than 125 libraries in the U.S.. RFID Tags and Labels The company has a RFID initiative aimed at positioning Checkpoint as a quality producer of RFID tags and labels, leveraging its high volume, low cost RF circuit production and manufacturing knowledge. In October 2006, we announced our intention to focus our RFID initiative on our core retail customers and our existing library business. 6 Table of Contents RETAIL MERCHANDISING Retail merchandising includes hand-held label applicators and tags, promotional displays, and queuing systems. These traditional products broaden our reach among retailers. Many of the products in this business segment represent high-margin items with a high level of recurring sales of associated consumables such as labels. As a result of the increasing use of scanning technology in retail, our HLS products are serving a declining market. Retail merchandising, which is focused on European and Asian markets, represents approximately 12% of our business, with no product group in this segment accounting for as much as 10% of our revenues. Hand-held Labeling Systems Hand-held labeling systems include a complete line of hand-held price marking and label application solutions, primarily sold to retailers. Sales of labels, consumables, and service generate a significant source of recurring revenues. As retail scanning becomes widespread, in-store retail price marking applications have continued to decline. Our HLS products currently have a majority market share in Europe. Retail Display Systems Retail display systems include a wide range of products for customers in certain retail sectors, such as supermarkets and do-it-yourself (DIY), where high-quality signage and in-store price promotion are important. Product categories include traditional retail promotional systems for in-store communication and electronic graphics systems, and customer queuing systems. These systems are no longer sold in the U.S. as a result of the divesture to SATO in January 2006. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our business strategy focuses on providing comprehensive, single-source solutions that help retailers, manufacturers, and distributors identify, track, and protect their assets. We believe that innovative new products and expanded product offerings will provide significant opportunities to enhance the value of legacy products while expanding the product base in existing customer accounts. We intend to maintain our leadership position in certain key hard goods markets, expand our market share in the soft goods markets, and maximize our position in under-penetrated markets. We also intend to continue to capitalize on our installed base of large global retailers to promote source tagging. Furthermore, we plan to leverage our knowledge of RF and identification technologies to assist retailers and manufacturers in realizing the benefits of RFID. To achieve these objectives, we plan to work to continually enhance and expand our technologies and products, and provide superior service to our customers. We are focused on providing our customers with a wide variety of integrated shrink management, labeling, and retail merchandising solutions characterized by superior quality, ease of use, good value, and enhanced merchandising opportunities for the retailer, manufacturer, and distributor. To improve profitability, we initiated an evaluation of our business lines and operations globally in order to develop a plan to dramatically improve operating margins, shareholder value, and customer focus. This evaluation resulted in the exiting of underperforming businesses, including BCS and Access Control, and other actions designed to improve sales productivity, reconfigure our manufacturing and supply chain, and rationalize our overhead structure. Principal Markets and Marketing Strategy Through our security business segment, we market EAS and CCTV products primarily to worldwide retailers in the hard goods market (supermarkets, drug stores, mass merchandisers, and music/electronics), soft goods market (apparel), libraries, and consumer product manufacturers through our source tagging program. We enjoy significant market share, particularly in the supermarket, drug store, hypermarket, and mass merchandiser market segments. Some of our diverse worldwide customers include: Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Circuit City Stores, CVS/pharmacy, Esprit, GAP/Old Navy, Home Depot, Kohl’s Department Stores, Linens ‘n Things, Sears, Target Corporation, Walgreen Co., and Winn Dixie, Inc. in the U.S.; Safeway and Shoppers Drug Mart/Pharmaprix in Canada; Gigante in Mexico; Pague Menos in Brazil; B&Q in the United Kingdom; Alcampo, Carrefour, El Corte Inglés, and Mercadona in Spain; Carrefour, Casino, FNAC, and Intermarché in France; Metro Group in Germany; Woolworths in Australia; Don Quixote in Japan; and Ahold throughout Europe. 7 Table of Contents Shoplifting and employee theft are major causes of shrinkage. Data collection systems have highlighted the shrinkage problem to retailers. As a result, retailers recognize that the implementation of effective electronic security solutions can significantly reduce shrinkage and increase profitability. In addition to providing retail security solutions, we provide a wide variety of integrated shrink management, labeling services, and retail merchandising solutions to manufacturers and retailers worldwide. This entails a broadened focus within the entire retail supply chain by providing branding, tracking, and shrink management solutions to retail stores, distribution centers, and consumer product and apparel manufacturers worldwide. We are focused on providing our customers with a wide variety of integrated solutions to help them “Sell More and Lose Less.” Our ongoing marketing strategy includes the following: • open new, and expand, existing retail accounts with new products that will increase penetration through integrated value-added solutions for labeling, security, and merchandising; • establish business-to-business web-based capabilities to enable retailers and manufacturers to initiate and track their orders through the supply chain on a global basis; • expand market opportunities to manufacturers and distributors, including source tagging and value-added labeling; • continue to promote source tagging around the world with extensive integration and automation capabilities using new EAS, RFID, and auto-ID technologies; and • assist retailers in understanding the benefits and implementation of the new Electronic Product Code (EPC) using RFID technology. We market our products primarily: • by providing total loss prevention solutions to the retailer; • by helping retailers sell more merchandise by avoiding stock-outs and making merchandise available to consumers; • by serving as a single point of contact for auto-ID and EAS labeling and ticketing needs; • through direct sales efforts and targeted trade show participation; • through superior service and support capabilities; and • by emphasizing source tagging benefits. We focus on partnering with retail suppliers worldwide in our source tagging program. Ongoing strategies to increase acceptance of source tagging are as follows: • increase installation of EAS equipment on a chain-wide basis with leading retailers around the world; • offer integrated tag solutions, including custom tag conversion that addresses the needs of branding, tracking, and loss prevention; • assist retailers in promoting source tagging with vendors; • broaden penetration of existing accounts by promoting our in-house printing, global service bureau network (Check-Net®), and labeling solution capabilities; • support manufacturers and suppliers to speed implementation; • expand RF tag technologies and products to accommodate the needs of the packaging industry; and • develop compatibility with EPC/RFID technologies. 8 Table of Contents Manufacturing, Raw Materials, and Inventory Electronic Article Surveillance We manufacture our EAS products in facilities located in Puerto Rico, Japan, Germany, the Dominican Republic, Malaysia, and the Netherlands. Our manufacturing strategy for EAS products is to rely primarily on in-house capability and to vertically integrate manufacturing operations to the extent economically beneficial. This integration and in-house capability provides significant control over costs, quality, and responsiveness to market demand, which we believe results in a distinct competitive advantage. We involve customers, engineering, manufacturing, and marketing in the design and development of our products. For RF sensor production, we purchase raw materials from outside suppliers and assemble electronic components at our facilities in the Dominican Republic for the majority of our sensor product lines. The manufacture of some RF sensors sold in Europe and all EM hardware is outsourced. For our EAS disposable tag production, we purchase raw materials and components from suppliers and complete the manufacturing process at our facilities in Puerto Rico, Japan, Germany, and the Netherlands. We sold approximately 3.5 billion disposable tags in 2006 and have the capacity to produce more than 5 billion disposable tags per year. The principal raw materials and components used by us in the manufacture of our products are electronic components and circuit boards for our systems; and aluminum foil, resins, paper, and ferric chloride solutions for our disposable tags. While most of these materials are purchased from several suppliers, there are alternative sources for all such materials. The products that are not manufactured by us are sub-contracted to manufacturers selected for their manufacturing and assembly skills, quality, and price. CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We are primarily an integrator of CCTV, fire and intrusion components manufactured by others. In the U.S., we use in-house capabilities to assemble products such as the pan/tilt/zoom dome camera and other products such as the Advanced Public View (APV) CCTV system. The software component of the system is added during product assembly at our operational facilities. Labeling Services and Retail Merchandising We manufacture labels, tags, and hand-held tools. Our main production facilities are located in Germany, the Netherlands, the U.S., and Malaysia. Local production facilities are also situated in Hong Kong. Manufacturing in Germany is focused on HLS labels and print heads for HLS tools. Our facilities in the Netherlands and in the U.S. manufacture labels and tags for laser overprinting, thermal labels. The Malaysian facility produces standard bodies for HLS tools for Europe, complete hand-held tools for the rest of the world, and labels for the local market. With the acquisition of ADS in November 2006, we acquired label manufacturing facilities in the UK, Hong Kong, China, and Turkey. DISTRIBUTION For our major product lines, we principally sell our products to end customers using our direct sales force of more than 450 sales people. To improve our sales efficiency, we also distribute products through an independent network of resellers. This distribution channel supports and services smaller customers. This indirect channel, which has primarily sold EAS solutions, will be broadened and expanded to include more product lines as we focus on improved sales productivity. Electronic Article Surveillance We sell our EAS systems principally throughout North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. In North America, we market our EAS products through our own sales personnel and independent representatives. During 2006, 93% of total U.S. EAS revenues were generated by our own sales personnel. Internationally, we market our EAS products principally through foreign subsidiaries which sell directly to the end-user and through independent distributors. Our international sales operations are currently located in 16 European countries and in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Dominican Republic, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Malaysia, China, Mexico, Turkey and New Zealand. 9 Table of Contents Foreign distributors sell our products to both the retail and library markets. Pursuant to written distribution agreements, we generally appoint an independent distributor as an exclusive distributor for a specified term and for a specified territory. CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems We market CCTV systems and services in selected countries throughout the world using our own sales staff. These products and services are provided to our EAS retail customers, as well as non-EAS retailers. Fire and intrusion systems are marketed exclusively in the U.S. through a direct sales force. Labeling Services and Retail Merchandising We have customers worldwide in the labeling services and retail merchandising businesses. These customers are primarily found within the retail sector and retail supply chain. Major customers include companies within industries such as food retailing, DIY (Do-It-Yourself), department stores, and apparel retailers. Large national and international customers are handled centrally by key account sales specialists supported by appropriate business specialists. Smaller customers are served by either a general sales force capable of representing all products or, if the complexity or size of the business demands, a dedicated business specialist. BACKLOG Our backlog of orders was approximately $54.9 million at December 31, 2006 compared to approximately $52.2 million at December 25, 2005. We anticipate that substantially all of the backlog at the end of 2006 will be delivered during 2007. In the opinion of management, the amount of backlog is not indicative of trends in our business. Our security business generally follows the retail cycle so that revenues are weighted toward the last half of the calendar year as retailers prepare for the holiday season. TECHNOLOGY We believe that our patented and proprietary technologies are important to our business and future growth opportunities, and provide us with distinct competitive advantages. We continually evaluate our domestic and international patent portfolio, and where the cost of maintaining the patent exceeds its value, such patent may not be renewed. The majority of our revenues are derived from products or technologies which are patented or licensed. There can be no assurance, however, that a competitor could not develop products comparable to those of the Company. Our competitive position is also supported by our extensive manufacturing experience and know-how. Patents & Licensing On October 1, 1995, we acquired certain patents and improvements thereon related to EAS products and manufacturing processes from Arthur D. Little, Inc. for which we pay annual royalties. We also license technologies relating to RFID applications, EAS Products, certain sensors, magnetic labels, and fluid tags. These license arrangements have various expiration dates and royalty terms, but are not considered by us to be material. Labeling Services and Retail Merchandising We focus our in-house development efforts on product areas where we believe we can achieve and sustain a competitive cost and positioning advantage, and where delivery service is critical. We also develop and maintain technological expertise in areas that are believed to be important for new product development in our principal business areas. We have a base of technology expertise in the printing, electronics, and software areas and are particularly focused on EAS and labeling capabilities to support the development of higher value-added labels. SEASONALITY Our business is subject to seasonal influences, which generally causes us to realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year. Our business’ seasonality substantially follows the retail cycle of our customers, which generally has revenues weighted towards the last half of the calendar year in preparation for the holiday season. 10 Table of Contents COMPETITION Electronic Article Surveillance Currently, EAS systems are sold to two principal markets: retail establishments and libraries. Our principal global competitor in the EAS industry is Tyco International Ltd., through its ADT security division. Tyco is a diversified manufacturing and service company with interests in electronics, fire and security, healthcare, plastics and adhesives, and engineered products and services. Tyco’s 2006 revenues were approximately $41.0 billion. Within the U.S. market, additional competitors include Sentry Technology Corporation and Ketec, Inc., principally in the retail market, and 3M Company, principally in the library market. Within our international markets, mainly Europe, NEDAP and Tyco are our most significant competitors. We believe that our product line offers a more diverse range of products than our competition with a variety of disposable and reusable tags and labels, integrated scan/deactivation capabilities, and RF source tagging embedded into products or packaging. As a result, we compete in marketing our products primarily on the basis of their versatility, reliability, affordability, accuracy, and integration into operations. This combination provides many system solutions and allows for protection against a variety of retail merchandise theft. Furthermore, we believe that our manufacturing know-how and efficiencies relating to disposable tags give us a cost advantage over our competitors. CCTV, Fire and Intrusion Systems Our CCTV, fire and intrusion products, which are sold domestically through our Checkpoint Security Systems Group subsidiary and internationally through our international sales subsidiaries, compete primarily with similar products offered by Pelco and Tyco. We compete based on our superior service and believe that our offerings provide our retail and non-retail customers with distinctive system features. Global Labeling Services We sell our labeling services, including tags and labels, to the retail market. Major competitors for our label products are Avery Dennison and Paxar. Several competitive labeling service companies are also customers as they purchase EAS circuits from us to integrate into their label offerings. Retail Merchandising We face no single competitor across our entire retail merchandising product range or across all international markets. HL Display is our largest competitor in the retail display systems market, primarily in Europe. In the HLS segment, we compete with Contact, Garvey, Hallo, Paxar, and Prix. OTHER MATTERS Research and Development We spent approximately $19.4 million, $19.1 million, and $28.5 million, in research and development activities during 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The emphasis of these activities is the continued broadening of the product lines offered by us, cost reductions of the current product lines, and an expansion of the markets and applications for our products. We believe that our future growth in revenues will be dependent, in part, on the products and technologies resulting from these efforts. Another important source of new products and technologies has been the acquisition of companies and products. We continue to assess acquisitions of related businesses or products consistent with our overall product and marketing strategies. We continue to develop and expand our product lines with improvements in disposable tag performance, disposable tag manufacturing processes, and wide-aisle RF-EAS detection sensors with integration of remote and wireless internet connectivity and RFID integration. 11 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 3,213 employees, including six executive officers, 90 employees engaged in research and development activities, and 535 employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. In the United States, 10 of our employees are represented by a union. In Europe, we believe that approximately 500 of our employees are represented by various unions or work councils. Financial Information About Geographic and Business Segments We operate both domestically and internationally in the three distinct business segments described previously. The financial information regarding our geographic and business segments, which includes net revenues and gross profit for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, and long-lived assets as of December 31, 2006, December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, is provided in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information Our internet website is at www.checkpointsystems.com. Investors can obtain copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed such materials with, or furnished them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We will also furnish a paper copy of such filings free of charge upon request. Investors can also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings can also be accessed at the SEC’s internet website: www.sec.gov. We have posted the Code of Ethics, the Governance Guidelines, and each of the Committee Charters on our website at www.checkpointsystems.com, and will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Ethics applicable to any of our directors or executive officers. The foregoing information will also be available in print upon request. Executive Officers of the Company The following table sets forth certain current information concerning the executive officers of the Company, including their ages, position, and tenure as of the date hereof: Tenure with Position with the Company and Name Age Company Date of Election to Position on George W. Off 60 4 years Chairman of the Board Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2002 W. Craig Burns 47 11 years Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since March 2001 John E. Davies, Jr. 49 15 years President, Intelligent Labeling Solutions since March 2006 Per H. Levin 49 12 years Worldwide President, SMMS since March 2006 John R. Van Zile 54 3 years Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 2003 Raymond Andrews 54 1 year Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since August 2005 Mr. Off was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer on August 15, 2002. Mr. Off had been Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company since June 2002 and a member of the Board of Directors since May 2002. Mr. Off is a founder and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Catalina Marketing Corporation (NYSE: POS) and a 40-year veteran in the retail marketing industry. Mr. Burns was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer on March 20, 2001. Mr. Burns was Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from April 2000 to March 2001. Mr. Burns was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from December 1997 until April 2000. He was Director of Tax from February 1996 to December 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Burns was a Senior Tax Manager with Coopers & Lybrand, LLP from June 1989 to February 1996. Mr. Burns is a Certified Public Accountant. 12 Table of Contents Mr. Davies was appointed President, Intelligent Label Solutions in March 2006. Mr. Davies was President, Asia Pacific and Latin America from June 2004 until March 2006, Executive Vice President, General Manager, Americas and Asia Pacific from March 2003 until June 2004, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing USA, Americas, Asia Pacific from August 2002 until March 2003, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations from March 2002 to August 2002 and Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations from March 2001 to March 2002. He was Vice President, Research and Development from August 1998 to March 2001 and Senior Director, Worldwide Systems Engineering from October 1996 to August 1998. Since joining the Company in October 1992, Mr. Davies held various engineering positions until October 1996. Mr. Levin was appointed President, Shrink Management and Merchandising Solutions in March 2006. He was President of Europe from June 2004 until March 2006, Executive Vice President, General Manager, Europe from May 2003 until June 2004, Vice President, General Manager, Europe from February 2001 until May 2003. Mr. Levin was Regional Director, Southern Europe from 1997 to 2001 and joined the Company in January 1995 as Managing Director of Spain. Mr. Van Zile has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since joining the Company in June 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Van Zile served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Exide Corporation from September 2000 until October 2002, and was Vice President and General Counsel from November 1996 until September 2000. Exide Corporation filed for Chapter 11 protection in April 2002. Prior to Exide Corporation, Mr. Van Zile held positions of increasing legal responsibility at GM-Hughes Electronics Corporation and Coltec Industries. Mr. Andrews has been Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since August 2005. He previously served as Controller of INVISTA S.a’r.l., a subsidiary of Koch Industries, where he oversaw the company’s accounting operations in North and South America, Europe and Asia. Prior to the acquisition by Koch Industries, Mr. Andrews was Director of Accounting Operations of INVISTA Inc. From 1998 to 2002, Mr. Andrews served as Controller for DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company and then Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company, a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb, when that company acquired DuPont Pharmaceuticals in 2001. Prior to being appointed Controller, he held positions of increasing responsibility at DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company and the DuPont Company. Mr. Andrews is a Certified Public Accountant. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The following risk factors, among other possible factors, could cause actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results: (1) changes in international business conditions; We are a multinational manufacturer and marketer of integrated system solutions for retail security, labeling, and merchandising. Our international operations account for approximately 63% of our revenues. Our results of operations could be affected by material adverse changes in foreign economic conditions generally or in markets served. (2) foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, and competitive factors in the countries in which we operate, could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. (3) lower than anticipated demand by retailers and other customers for our products, particularly in the current economic environment; Our business is heavily dependent on the retail marketplace. Changes to the economic environment or reductions in retailer spending could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. (4) slower commitments of retail customers to chain-wide installations and/or source tagging adoption or expansion; Our revenues are dependent on our ability to maintain and increase our system installation base. The system installation base leads to additional revenues, which we term as “recurring revenues,” through the sale of tags and maintenance services. In addition, we partner with manufacturers to include our sensor tags into the product during manufacturing. 13 Table of Contents If the commitment for chain-wide installation declines or the adoption or expansion of our source tag program does not occur, it could have an adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. (5) possible increases in per unit product manufacturing costs due to less than full utilization of manufacturing capacity as a result of slowing economic conditions or other factors; Our manufacturing capacity is designed to meet our current and future anticipated demands. If our product demand decreases as a result of economic conditions and other factors, it could increase our cost per unit and affect our cost of sales and results of operations. (6) our ability to provide and market innovative and cost-effective products; We operate in competitive markets which are sensitive to price. Our ability to provide cost-effective products could affect our customer demand. (7) the development of new competitive technologies; Our long term success will depend on transitioning from existing technologies into the next generation of technology. While we are investigating and investing in potential replacement technologies such as radio frequency identification, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining our current market position in the future. (8) our ability to maintain our intellectual property; We have a number of patents that will be expiring in the next several years. The expiration of these patents will reduce the barriers to entry into our existing lines of business and may result in loss of market share. (9) competitive pricing pressures causing profit erosion; We operate in highly competitive business segments. If pricing in any of these segments were to decrease due to competitive pressures, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. (10) the availability and pricing of component parts and raw materials; Our ability to grow earnings will be affected by increases in the cost of component parts and raw materials, including electronic components, circuit boards, aluminum foil, resins, paper, and ferric chloride solutions. We may not be able to offset fully the effects of higher component parts and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. (11) possible increases in the payment time for receivables as a result of economic conditions or other market factors; The majority of our customer base is in the retail marketplace. A material change in the economic condition of this sector or other sectors served by us could have a material effect on our results from operations and anticipated cash from operations. (12) changes in regulations or standards applicable to our products; Our EAS products are subject to FCC regulation and equivalent regulatory oversight in Europe. While we continually monitor potential changes, any change could affect our ability to compete in that market. (13) the ability to implement cost reduction in field service, sales, and general and administrative expense, and our manufacturing and supply chain operations without significantly impacting revenue and profits; and We are in the process of taking actions to rationalize our field service, improve our sales productivity, reduce our general and administrative expenses, and reconfigure our manufacturing and supply chain operations. While we will monitor the progress, our ability to execute the changes to these areas could have an impact on future revenues and profits. (14) material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, and other aspects of our business. 14 Table of Contents The maintenance of an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. In March 2007, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended 2004 and 2005, and the four quarterly periods in 2005 and the first three quarters in 2006. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that is described in Item 9A of this report. As a result of this material weakness, management’s assessment concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective. The material weakness has not been fully addressed. It is also possible that additional material weaknesses will be identified in the future. Until we complete the remediation of the material weakness, we risk material misstatements to the annual or interim financial statements that are not prevented or detected on a timely basis. The current material weakness or any future weaknesses or internal control deficiencies could hurt confidence in our business and consolidated financial statements, impacting our ability to do business with customers, investors, securities analysts, investors and others. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 