Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThe risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience and from results predicted by any forward-looking statements related to conditions or events that may occur in the future.Current economic conditions could adversely impact our business and results of operations.Our operations and results depend significantly on global market worldwide economic conditions, which have experienced deterioration in recent years. Future economic factors may continue to be less favorable than in years past and may continue to result in diminished liquidity and tighter credit conditions, leading to decreased credit availability, as well as declines in economic growth and employment levels. These conditions may increase the difficulty for us to accurately forecast and plan future business. Customer demand could be impacted by decreased spending by businesses and consumers alike, and competitive pricing pressures could increase. We are unable to predict the length or severity of the current economic conditions. A continuation or further deterioration of these economic factors may have a material and adverse effect on the liquidity and financial condition of our customers and on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs.We have significant foreign operations, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries.We are a multinational manufacturer and marketer of identification, tracking security, and merchandising solutions for the retail industry. We have significant operations outside of the U.S. We currently operate directly in 29 countries, and our international operations generate approximately 73% of our revenue. We expect net revenue generated outside of the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. Business operations outside of the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as:▪The difficulty in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems;▪trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;▪difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;▪compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations;▪compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control;▪changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets;▪the threat of nationalization and expropriation;▪increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions;▪changes in enacted tax laws;▪limitations on repatriation of earnings; and▪fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate, as well as the impact of economic conditions on underlying demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.As we continue to explore the expansion of our global reach, an increasing focus of our business may be in emerging markets, including South America and Southern Asia. In many of these emerging markets, we may be faced with risks that are more significant than if we were to do business in developed countries, including undeveloped legal systems, unstable governments and economies, and potential governmental actions affecting the flow of goods and currency.15Table of Contents Volatility in currency exchange rates and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Refer to Part 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.Our net revenue derived from sales in non-U.S. markets is approximately 73% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. When the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, which is our functional currency.We monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we enter into contracts to reduce the risks of currency fluctuations on short-term inter-company receivables and payables, and on projected future billings in non-functional currencies and use third-party borrowings in foreign currencies to hedge a portion of our net investments in, and cash flows derived from, our foreign subsidiaries. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of lower than anticipated demand by retailers and other customers for our products, particularly in the current economic environment.Our business is heavily dependent on the retail marketplace. Changes in the economic environment including the liquidity and financial condition of our customers or reductions in retailer spending could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In a period of decreased consumer spending, retailers could respond by reducing their spending on new store openings and loss prevention budgets. This reduction could directly impact our SMS business, as a reduction in new store openings will lower demand for SMS EAS systems and consumables, CheckView® installations and item level RFID solutions. Additionally, lower loss prevention budgets could reduce the amount retailers will be willing to spend to upgrade existing store technology. Label demand could also be impacted due to lower loss prevention budgets as retailers may reduce the percentage of items covered. In addition, our label volume increases as more items are sold through the retailer and lower demand decreases the volume related to the items tagged by the retailer. As retail sales volumes decline, label demand may also decline. The factors could also impact our Apparel labeling and Retail Merchandising Solutions business. A decrease in the demand for our products resulting from reduced spending by retailers due to fewer store openings, reduced loss prevention budgets and slower adoption of our new technology could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of slower commitments of retail customers to chain-wide installations and/or source tagging adoption or expansion.Our revenues are dependent on our ability to maintain and increase our system installation base. The SMS EAS system installation base leads to additional revenues, which we term as “recurring revenues,” through the sale of maintenance services and SMS EAS consumables, including sensor tags. In addition, we partner with manufacturers to include our sensor tags into the product during manufacturing, an approach known as source tagging.The level of commitments for chain-wide installations may decline due to decreased consumer spending which results in reduced spending on loss prevention by our retail customers, our failure to develop new technology that entices the customer to maintain their commitment to our loss prevention products and services, competing technologies and retailers' decisions to defer the capital investment and expense. A reduction in the commitment for chain-wide installations may also impact our ability to expand utilization of our source tagging program. A reduction in commitments to chain-wide installations and utilization of our source tagging program could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 16Table of Contents The markets we serve are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively if we are unable to provide and market innovative and cost-effective products at competitive prices.We face competition around the world, including competition from other large, multinational companies and other regional companies. Some of these companies may have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. We face competition in several aspects of our business. In the SMS EAS systems and Alpha S3 businesses and SMS EAS consumables business, we compete primarily on the basis of integrated security solutions and diversified, sophisticated, and quality product lines targeted at meeting the loss prevention needs of our retail customers. We also compete on the basis of merchandise visibility (RFID) solutions that meet the item level product identification needs of our customers. In our CheckView® business, we compete primarily on the basis of efficient installation capability that is in place in North America. In the ALS business, we compete primarily on the capability to effectively and quickly deliver retail customer specified tags and labels to manufacturing sites in multiple countries. It is possible that our competitors will be able to offer additional products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we cannot offer or that will make our products less profitable. It is also possible that our competitors will offer incentive programs or will market and advertise their products in a way that will impact customers' preferences, and we may not be able to compete effectively.We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of our competitors' activities and initiatives, or we may be unable to successfully counteract them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to our competitors' activities may affect our financial performance in the relevant period. Our ability to compete also depends on our ability to attract and retain key talent, protect patent and trademark rights, and develop innovative and cost-effective products. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability.Our long term success is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies, and if we are unable to successfully develop those technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected.Our growth depends on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can:▪develop and fund technological innovations, such as those related to our next generation EAS product solutions, evolving RFID technologies, and other innovative security device, software, and systems initiatives;▪receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection; and▪successfully anticipate customer needs and preferences. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Research and development for each of our operating segments is complex and uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market trends. Also, delay in the development or launch of a new product could compromise our competitive position, particularly if our competitors announce or introduce new products and services in advance of us.An inability to acquire, protect or maintain our intellectual property, including patents, could harm our ability to compete or grow.Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry, we rely on protections of our intellectual property and proprietary information to maintain a competitive advantage. The expiration of these patents will reduce the barriers to entry into our existing lines of business and may result in loss of market share and a decrease in our competitive abilities, thus having a potential adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At this time we do not anticipate any significant impact from the expiration of patents over the next two to three years.There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained will provide adequate protection to ensure any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure investors that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented prior to their expiration. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that competitors have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the U.S. or in international markets.We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to patent infringement claims. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits generally are costly and time-consuming. If other parties violate our proprietary rights, further litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation will be costly and cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel.17Table of Contents Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of possible increases in per unit product manufacturing costs as a result of slowing economic conditions or other factors.Our manufacturing capacity is designed to meet our current and future anticipated demands. If our product demand decreases as a result of economic conditions and other factors, it could increase our cost per unit. If an increase in our cost per unit is passed on to our customers, it may decrease our competitive position, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. If an increase in cost per unit is not passed on to our customers, it may reduce our gross margins, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our SMS EAS consumables, RFID consumables, Alpha and ALS products have various low price competitors globally. In order for us to maintain and improve our market position, we need to continuously monitor and seek to improve our manufacturing effectiveness, capacity utilization and demand planning while maintaining our high quality standard. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to improve manufacturing and supply chain effectiveness, then our cost per unit may increase which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and component parts required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer.We purchase materials and component parts from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our ability to grow earnings will be affected by inflationary and other increases in the cost of component parts and raw materials, including electronic components, circuit boards, aluminum foil, resins, paper, and ferric chloride, hydrochloric acid solutions and rare earth magnets. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials, labor, and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to pass these cost increases on to customers in the prices for our products and to effect improvements in productivity. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher component parts and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. A disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Any of these problems could result in the loss of customers and revenue, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Possible increases in the payment time for receivables as a result of economic conditions or other market factors could have a material effect on our results from operations and anticipated cash from operating activities.The majority of our customer base is in the retail marketplace. Although we have a rigorous process to administer credit granted to customers and believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, we have experienced, and in the future may experience, losses as a result of our inability to collect our accounts receivable. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which in some cases have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. The financial difficulties of a customer could result in reduced business with that customer. We may also assume higher credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial difficulty. If these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from a major customer could substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows from operating activities.Our working capital initiatives may fail to deliver our expected cash flow improvements.We have initiated enhanced cash flow controls to tighten our cash flow management of accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and local operating cash flows. There can be no assurance that these controls and initiatives or others will be beneficial to the extent anticipated, or that the incremental cost savings or cash flow improvements will be realized as anticipated or at all. Our failure to administer, monitor, and effectively manage cash related activities could result in our failure to deliver our expected cash flow improvements.18Table of Contents The effectiveness of our strategic plan is subject to the successful implementation of our plans and actions.As a result of a comprehensive and strategic operational review during the second quarter of 2012, we redefined our strategic focus. Our strategic plan is designed to improve revenues and profitability, reduce costs, and improve working capital management. We have a disciplined process for deploying this strategic plan. During the second quarter of 2012, in conjunction with our strategic shift, we launched a new profit improvement initiative, Project LEAN, which is designed to restructure our company to support a more focused product range while positioning Checkpoint to return to profitable growth. This plan focuses on consolidating certain manufacturing facilities and administrative functions to improve efficiency. In the third quarter of 2012, we developed a comprehensive plan to address operational performance in ALS. In addition to our restructuring plans including Project LEAN, we have many plans and actions underway to improve the management of our business. These include the following: ▪Improved financial forecasting abilities▪Enhanced management reporting▪New sales compensation incentive plans▪Refined product pricing approach▪Continuous cost-improvement process improvement plans▪Systematic talent assessment process▪Developing a culture focused on accountabilityThere is a risk that we may not be successful in executing these measures to achieve the expected results for a variety of reasons, including market developments, economic conditions, shortcomings in establishing appropriate action plans, or challenges with executing multiple initiatives simultaneously. We may not be able to acquire businesses that fit our strategic plan or divest of those that do not fit our strategic plan on acceptable business terms, and we may not achieve our other strategic priorities. Our ability to implement cost reductions in field services, selling, general and administrative expenses, and our manufacturing and supply chain operations may have a significant impact on our business and future revenues and profits.We have taken actions to rationalize our field service, improve our sales productivity, reduce our general and administrative expenses, and reconfigure our manufacturing and supply chain operations. Such rationalization actions require management judgment on the development of cost reduction strategies and precision on the execution of those strategies. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, and other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits. We also cannot predict whether we will realize improved operating performance as a result of any cost reduction strategies. Further, in the event the market continues to fluctuate, we may not have the appropriate level of resources and personnel to react to the change. We are also subject to the risk of business disruption in connection with our restructuring initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and future revenues and profits.We continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure and efficiencies consistent with our strategy. As a result of these evaluations, we may take similar rationalization steps in the future. Future actions could result in restructuring and related charges, including but not limited to workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities that could be significant.If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed.Our strategy is to maximize value by achieving growth both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and effectively manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could effectively decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially.19Table of Contents Our ability to integrate acquisitions and to achieve our financial and operational goals for these acquired businesses could have an impact on future revenues and profits.In August 2009, we acquired Brilliant, a Hong Kong and China-based manufacturer of woven and printed labels, which allowed us to strengthen and expand our core apparel labeling offering and provides us with additional capacity in a key geographical location. In May 2011, we acquired the equity and/or assets of Shore to Shore, Inc., including the Adapt Group and related assets. Together, this acquisition represents a retail apparel and footwear product identification business which designs, manufactures and sells tags and labels, hang tags, price tickets, printed paper tags, pressure sensitive products, woven labels, leather and leather-like labels, heat transfer labels and brand protection and EAS solutions/labels which may or may not contain RFID tags, chips or inlays. Issues with the integration of these acquired businesses coupled with broad based weaknesses in the apparel retail markets into which we sell, negatively impacted post-acquisition performance of these businesses. In July 2012, we reassessed our strategy and decided to re-engineer the apparel labeling footprint, including portions of these acquisitions to improve financial performance and productivity. Various risks, uncertainties and costs are associated with acquisitions. Effective integration of systems, key business processes, controls, objectives, personnel, management practices, product lines, markets, customers, supply chain operations, and production facilities can be difficult to achieve and the results are uncertain, particularly across our internationally diverse organization. We may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired company and we may not be able to successfully execute integration strategies or achieve projected performance targets set for the business segment into which an acquired company is integrated. Our ability to execute the integration plans could have an impact on future revenues and profits and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance that these acquisitions or others will be successful and contribute to our profitability.Any acquisition, strategic relationship, joint venture or investment could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.We actively pursue acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures, collaborations and investments that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into adjacent markets, or broaden our technology and intellectual property. Such transactions may be complex, time consuming and expensive, and may present numerous challenges and risks. Lack of control over the actions of our business partners in any strategic relationship, joint venture or collaboration, could significantly delay the introduction of planned products or otherwise make it difficult or impossible to realize the expected benefits of such relationship.Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. Specifically, we are significantly reducing our focus on CheckView® by pursuing the divestiture of our U.S. and Canada CheckView® business and will limit our focus on opportunistic sales in Asia. In October 2012, we completed the sale of our non-strategic Banking Security Systems Integration business unit that was formerly part of our Shrink Management Solutions segment. We are also pursuing the divestiture of our interest in Shore to Shore PVT Ltd. (Sri Lanka) in our Apparel Labeling Solutions segment. Divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. In addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line.20Table of Contents An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to annually assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. In addition, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill with an indefinite life, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in such factors and conditions. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis, as well as when interim events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess definite lived intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.During the second quarter of 2012, we experienced deterioration in revenues, gross margins and operating results in each of our segments as compared to the forecasted amounts in the most recent impairment test. Due to the declines in operating results in our segments, a change in management, and a revised strategic focus, we determined that impairment triggering events had occurred and that an assessment of goodwill was warranted. This resulted in our assessment that the carrying value of the Apparel Labeling Solutions reporting unit exceeded its fair value. As a result of our interim impairment test, a $64.4 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge was recorded as of June 24, 2012 in our Apparel Labeling Solutions segment. The goodwill impairment expense was due to the decline in estimated future Apparel Labeling Solutions cash flow impacted by our plan to refocus the business, coupled with recent declines in revenue and profitability. There were no additional impairment indicators during the third quarter ended September 23, 2012. Our 2012 annual impairment test resulted in our assessment that the carrying value of the Europe and International Americas Retail Merchandising Solutions reporting unit exceeded its fair value. As a result of our annual impairment test, a $38.3 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge was assessed as of October 21, 2012 and recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. The goodwill impairment expense was due to the decline in estimated future Europe Retail Merchandising Solutions cash flows impacted by current economic conditions in Europe resulting in decreased customer investments in new stores and refurbishments. Additionally, increased competition and pricing pressures are factors that have negatively impacted this business.The basis of the fair value was determined by projecting future cash flows using assumptions concerning future operating performance and economic conditions that may differ from actual cash flows. Estimated future cash flows are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from our market capitalization plus a suitable control premium at the date of the evaluation. The financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. Although our analysis regarding the fair values of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for the remaining reporting units indicates that they exceed their respective carrying values, materially different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses or significant declines in our stock price could result in additional goodwill and intangible impairment losses. Specifically, an unanticipated deterioration in revenues and gross margins generated by our Shrink Management Solutions and Retail Merchandising Solutions segments could trigger future impairment in those segments. While we currently believe that our projected results will not result in future impairment, a continued deterioration in results could trigger a future impairment.21Table of Contents We have entered into a senior secured credit facility agreement and senior secured notes agreement that restrict certain activities, and failure to comply with these agreements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We maintain a senior secured credit facility and senior secured notes that contain restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and senior secured notes agreements contain other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. These provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with the requirements of the senior secured credit facility and/or senior secured notes agreements, we may be in default, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary amendments to the respective agreements or waivers of an event of default. Upon an event of default, if the respective agreements are not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lenders could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. The impacts of our restructuring initiatives and on-going economic conditions have put pressure on our debt covenants during 2012. During the first quarter of 2012, we pursued an amendment to temporarily increase the leverage ratio through the end of the third quarter of 2012. This amendment was approved and deemed effective as of February 17, 2012.On July 31, 2012, we reached an agreement with our lenders to amend our debt agreements to facilitate our ability to execute our redefined strategy and expanded restructuring plan. The July 2012 Amendment increased the required leverage ratio covenant, which is now based on adjusted EBITDA, and decreased the required fixed charge coverage ratio through the first quarter of 2013, and includes a waiver of the fixed charge coverage ratio through the third quarter of 2012 and a decrease for the fourth quarter of 2012. Absent the waiver and additional amendment, we would have been in violation of the June 24, 2012 leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage covenants. We were in compliance with the amended leverage ratio covenant as of September 23, 2012. Absent the waiver, we would have been in violation of the fixed charge covenant as of September 23, 2012. We are in compliance with the amended leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants as of December 30, 2012. Changes in legislation or governmental regulations, policies or standards applicable to our products may have a significant impact on our ability to compete in our target markets.We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters, and financial responsibility. Our SMS EAS products are subject to FCC regulation, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate, including regulation of the Conformité Européene (CE) in Europe. Failure to comply with laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits or licenses. If laws and regulations change and we fail to comply, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Our future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and investigations, and other contingencies and uncertainties that may arise out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to intellectual property, employment, commercial and other matters. Resolution of such matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay fines, damage awards or settlements, or become subject to fines, damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.22Table of Contents The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business.Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any disruption or failure of such networks, systems, or other technology may disrupt our operations, cause customer dissatisfaction, and loss of customer revenues.Risks generally associated with a company-wide implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.We have been implementing a company-wide ERP system to handle the business and financial processes within our operations and corporate functions. Due to our cost savings initiatives, the implementation of our European ERP system is temporarily suspended, with costs accumulated in construction-in-progress of $4.7 million as of December 30, 2012. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process, decide to forgo a company-wide implementation, or if the ERP system and the associated process changes do not give rise to the benefits that we expect. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.As a global business, we have a relatively complex tax structure, and there is a risk that tax authorities will disagree with our tax positions.Since we conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries, we are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between us and our foreign affiliates be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm's length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the tax allocation. Although uniform transfer pricing standards are emerging in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. Our tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures, the ultimate outcome of a tax review could differ materially from our provisions.We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that it is more likely than not to be realized. Our assessments about the realizability of our deferred tax assets are based on estimates of our future taxable income by tax jurisdiction, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic environments in which we do business. Any changes in these assessments could have a material impact on our results of operations.23Table of Contents In 2011 we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted in revisions of our Consolidated Financial Statements. This material weakness could continue to adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner.Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 25, 2011, and identified a material weakness related to our controls to prevent or detect management override of controls at certain of our foreign subsidiaries that were not integrated into our shared services environments in the United States and Europe. Specifically, the monitoring controls over certain locations, including internal audits, periodic reviews of segregation of duties and review of the effectiveness of key balance sheet reconciliations were not designed to prevent or detect management override of controls that could circumvent internal control over financial reporting. As a result of this control deficiency, we failed to detect on a timely basis fraudulent misappropriation of company funds, which contributed to the revision of the annual financial statements for 2010 and 2009 and the interim financial information for 2011 and 2010. The impacted accounts were cash, accounts receivable and inventory as well as income taxes and non-income taxes payable and operating expenses. Although the effect of these errors was not material to any previously issued financial statements, the cumulative effect of correcting the newly identified errors would have been material for the fiscal year 2011. Additionally, this control deficiency could result in misstatements of the aforementioned accounts or other accounts that could result in a material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 25, 2011. We remediated this material weakness during fiscal year 2012 and our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 30, 2012. See Part II - “Item 9A: Controls and Procedures.”A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim Consolidated Financial Statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our efforts were time-consuming and expensive. The effectiveness of any controls and procedures is subject to certain limitations, and, as a result, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will detect all errors or fraud. A control, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be attained. We also cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our past failure to maintain adequate internal controls and procedures or that circumvention of those controls and procedures will not occur. Additionally, even our improved controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify errors or irregularities or ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.The investigations by internal management into some of our historical accounting practices and the determination of various accounting adjustments, which resulted in the revision of our previously issued Consolidated Financial Statements, have been time-consuming and expensive, and may continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Commencing December 2011, our internal management devoted substantial internal and external resources to the investigation of certain unsubstantiated accounting entries in our Canada operations. Over substantially the same period, we devoted substantial additional resources to preparing the revised financial statements and information included in the 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these efforts, we have incurred substantial fees and expenses during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and first quarter of fiscal 2012, primarily for additional accounting, tax, legal and related consulting costs. On October 10, 2012, the Company received reimbursement of $4.7 million for the financial impact of the fraudulent Canadian activities from our insurance provider, a portion of which covered our expenses related to this matter. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.24Table of Contents Regulations that impose disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products will result in additional cost and expense and could result in other significant adverse effects. Rules adopted by the SEC implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act impose diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products. Compliance with these rules may result in additional cost and expense, including for due diligence to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. These rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals that can be used in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the metals used in our products. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.