Item 1A. Risk Factors - Third parties may dispute the Company's unpatented mining claims, which could result in the discovery of defective titles and losses affecting its business" and Note 20 -- Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Legislation has been introduced regularly in the U.S. Congress over the last decade to change the Mining Law of 1872 as amended, under which the Company holds these unpatented mining claims. It is possible that the Mining Law may be amended or replaced by less favorable legislation in the future. Previously proposed legislation contained a production royalty obligation, new environmental standards and conditions, additional reclamation requirements and extensive new procedural steps which would likely result in delays in permitting. The ultimate content of future proposed legislation, if enacted, is uncertain. If a royalty on unpatented mining claims were imposed, the profitability of the Company’s U.S. operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management have considered revising regulations governing operations under the Mining Law on federal lands they administer, which, if implemented, may result in additional procedures and environmental conditions and standards on those lands. The majority of the Company’s operations are either outside of the United States or on private patented lands and would be unaffected by potential legislation.Any such reform of the Mining Law or Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service regulations thereunder could increase the costs of mining activities on unpatented mining claims, or could materially impair the ability of the Company to develop or continue operations which derive ore from federal lands, and as a result could have an adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. Until such time, if any, as new reform legislation or regulations are enacted, the ultimate effects and costs of compliance on the Company cannot be estimated.Foreign Government RegulationsBolivia, where the San Bartolomé mine is located, and Mexico, where the Palmarejo mine and the La Preciosa project are located, have both adopted laws and guidelines for environmental permitting that are similar to those in effect in the United States and other South American countries. The permitting process requires a thorough study to determine the baseline condition of the mining site and surrounding area, an environmental impact analysis, and proposed mitigation measures to minimize and offset the environmental impact of mining operations. The Company has received all permits required to operate the San Bartolomé and Palmarejo mines, and has received all permits necessary for its exploration activities at the La Preciosa project.The mining properties of the Company that are located in Argentina are subject to various government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water and the environment in general, as well as the health of the work force, labor standards and the socio-economic impacts of mining facilities upon the communities. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to which it is subject in Argentina.The Company does not directly hold any interest in mining properties in Australia. However, the Company has purchased CBH Resources Limited's ("CBH") silver reserves at the Endeavor mine. CBH is responsible for the mining operation and compliance with government regulations and the Company is not responsible for compliance. The Company is however at risk for any production stoppages resulting from non-compliance. CBH’s mining property is subject to a range of state and federal government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water, noise, site rehabilitation and the environment in general, as well as the occupational health and safety of the work force, labor standards and the socio-economic impacts of mining facilities among local communities. In addition, the various federal and state native title laws and regulations recognize and protect the rights and interests in Australia of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in land and waters and may restrict mining and exploration activity and/or result in additional costs. CBH is required to deal with a number of governmental 5departments in connection with the development and exploitation of its mining property. The Company is not aware of any substantial non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations to which CBH is subject in Australia.Maintenance of ClaimsBoliviaThe Bolivian state-owned mining organization, Corporación Minera de Bolivia (“COMIBOL”), is the underlying owner of all of the mining rights relating to the San Bartolomé mine. COMIBOL’s ownership derives from the Supreme Decree 3196 issued in October 1952, when the government nationalized most of the mines in Potosí. COMIBOL has leased the mining rights for the surface silver and tin bearing sediment to several Potosí cooperatives. The cooperatives have subleased their mining rights to Coeur’s subsidiary, Manquiri, through a series of “joint venture” contracts. In addition to those agreements with the cooperatives, Manquiri holds additional mining rights under lease agreements directly with COMIBOL. All of Manquiri’s mining and surface rights collectively constitute the San Bartolomé project. For additional information regarding the maintenance of its claims to the San Bartolomé mine, see "