Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company in General A downturn in the general economy or the real estate market would harm the Company’s business. The Company’s business is negatively impacted by periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates and declining demand for real estate. These economic conditions could have a number of effects, including the following: • a decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity; • a decline in the supply of capital invested in commercial real estate; • a decline in the value of real estate and in rental rates, which would cause the Company to realize lower revenue from: • property management fees, which in certain cases are calculated as a percentage of the revenue of the property under management; and • commissions or fees derived from property valuation, sales and leasing, which are typically based on the value, sale price or lease revenue commitment, respectively. The real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the economy overall and to the perceptions of investors and users as to the economic outlook. A downturn in the economy or the real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company is in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, some of which may have greater financial and operational resources than it does. The Company competes in a variety of service disciplines within the commercial real estate industry. Each of these business areas is highly competitive on a national as well as on a regional and local level. The Company faces competition not only from other national real estate service providers, but also from global real estate service providers, boutique real estate advisory firms, consulting and appraisal firms. Depending on the product or service, the Company also faces competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than the Company does. The Company is also subject to competition from other large national firms and from multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to it. Although many of the Company’s competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than it, some of its competitors are substantially larger than it on a local, regional, national or international basis. In general, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively, to maintain current fee levels or margins, or maintain or increase its market share. As a service-oriented company, the Company depends on key personnel, and the loss of its current personnel or its failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm its business. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and the Company may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The Company’s ability to attract new employees may be limited by certain restrictions in its senior secured credit facility, including limitations on cash bonus payments to new hires and may only make cash payments that exceed those limits if it receives approval from the administrative agent, which cannot be guaranteed. The Company’s failure to recruit and retain necessary executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel could harm its business and its ability to obtain new customers. 12 Table of Contents If the Company fails to meet its payment or other obligations under its senior secured credit facility, then the lenders under the secured credit facility could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of its assets. Any material downturn in the Company’s revenue or increase in its costs and expenses could impair its ability to meet its debt obligations. The Company’s lenders under a senior secured credit facility have a lien on substantially all of its assets, including its accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles, investment property and future acquired material property. If the Company fails to meet its payment or other obligations under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under such credit facility will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of the Company’s assets and liquidate these assets. Although the Company intends to declare quarterly dividends, there can be no assurances when or whether the Company will declare future dividends or the amount of any dividends that may be declared in the future. Although the Company has previously announced that it intends to declare quarterly dividends, future cash dividends will depend upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that the Company’s board of directors may deem relevant. Also, there can be no assurance the Company will pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and sufficient cash is available for distribution. Additionally, certain provisions in the Company credit facility prohibit the making of distributions or payments of dividends on its common stock in the event the Company fails to maintain certain financial covenants. The Company plans to expand its business to include international operations that could subject it to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. Although the Company does not currently conduct significant business outside the United States, the Company intends to expand its business to include international operations. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect the Company’s business or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • adverse foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; • political instability; and • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in certain countries. Additionally, the Company may establish joint ventures with foreign entities for the provision of brokerage services abroad, which may involve the purchase or sale of the Company’s equity securities or the equity securities of the joint venture participant(s). In these joint ventures, the Company may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint venture and other participants may take action contrary to the Company’s instructions or requests and against the Company’s policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals 13 Table of Contents that are inconsistent with the Company. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to the Company’s interest, then it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Delaware law and provisions of the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments on the ability or desire of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to its existing stockholders, and the Company will be subject to these Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Additionally, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its restated bylaws contain provisions that might enable its management to resist a proposed takeover of the Company. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or an acquisition of the Company at a price that its stockholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for the Company’s stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. The provisions include: • the authority of the Company’s board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Company’s board may determine; • the authority of the Company’s board to adopt, amend or repeal the Company’s bylaws; and • a prohibition on holders of less than a majority of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock calling a special meeting of the Company’s stockholders. The Company has the ability to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of its common stock. Even though the Company does not have any preferred stock issued and outstanding, it has the right to issue so-called “blank check” preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of holders of common stock and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of the Company. There are ten million shares of preferred stock authorized. The Company’s board of directors will be authorized, without any further stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock. The Company will be authorized to fix and state the voting rights, powers, designations, preferences and relative participation or other special rights of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon. Preferred stock typically ranks prior to the common stock with respect to dividend rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full, limited, or expanded voting rights. Accordingly, additional issuances of preferred stock could further adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. The Company has registration rights outstanding, which could have a negative impact on its share price if exercised. Pursuant to the Company’s registration rights agreement with Kojaian Ventures, L.L.C. and Kojaian Holdings, LLC, these entities could, in the future, cause the Company to file additional registration statements with respect to its shares of common stock, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s share price. Future sales of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect its stock price. As a consequence of the Merger, an aggregate of 24,180,483 shares of the Company’s common stock are “restricted securities” as that term is defined by Rule 144 of the Securities Act and may be sold only in compliance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act or pursuant to an effective registration statement. Such restricted securities are held by the Company’s directors, officers, and their affiliates and 22,957,737 are currently eligible for sale in accordance with Rule 144. Ordinarily, under Rule 144, as recently amended, a person who is an “affiliate” (as that term is defined in Rule 144) and has beneficially owned restricted securities for a period of six months may, every three months, sell in brokerage transactions an amount that 14 Table of Contents does not exceed the greater of (1) one percent of the outstanding class of such securities, or (2) the average weekly trading volume in such securities on all national exchanges and/or reported through the automated quotation system of a registered securities association during the four weeks prior to the filing of a notice of sale by a securities holder. A person who is not a Company affiliate who beneficially owns restricted securities may, after the expiration of six months, sell unlimited amounts of such securities provided the Company is in compliance with the current public information requirements of the Rule, and after one year a non-affiliate may sell unlimited amounts of securities without regard to any requirements of Rule 144. Possible or actual sales of its outstanding common stock by its stockholders under Rule 144 could cause the price of its common stock to decline. In addition, as a consequence of the Merger, there are an aggregate of 1,755,759 Company shares subject to issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options. Accordingly, these shares will be available for sale in the open market, subject to vesting restrictions, and, in the case of affiliates, certain volume limitations. The sale of shares either present to the exercise of outstanding options or as a consequence of the application of the vesting of certain restricted stock could also cause the price of the combined company’s common stock to decline. As a consequence of the Merger and the amendments to the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the Company has a staggered board, which may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that its board of directors be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since the Company’s “staggered board” would prevent its stockholders from replacing a majority of its board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Failure to manage future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In the event that the Company experiences rapid growth in its operations, a significant strain may be placed upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition to managing the successful integration of the two companies’ operations, the Company’s success will depend in part upon the ability of the executive officers to manage future growth effectively. The Company’s ability to grow also depends upon its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage new employees, obtain financing for its capital needs, expand its systems effectively, allocate its human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between its transactional and management functions and its finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on its management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to the new geographic locations and business lines of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands it will face as it integrates and continues to expand its operations, and it may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to obtain additional financing when the Company needs it or on acceptable terms, and any such financing, or the failure to obtain financing, may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. There can be no assurance that the anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet all of the Company’s cash requirements. The Company intends to continue to make investments to support the Company’s business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges. Accordingly, the Company may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. The 15 Table of Contents Company cannot assure you that further equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of any debt financing may restrict the Company’s financial and operating flexibility. The Company’s inability to obtain any needed financing, or the terms on which it may be available, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The NYSE may delist the Company’s common stock from quotation on its exchange which could limit stockholders’ ability to make transactions in its common stock and subject it to additional trading restrictions. The Company cannot provide assurance that its common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE in the future. If the NYSE delists the Company’s common stock from trading on its exchange, then the Company could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for the Company’s common stock; • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; • a decreased ability to issue additional common stock, other securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of the Company’s stockholders to sell their common stock in certain states. The Company will not be required to furnish an auditor’s report on its internal control over financial reporting until December 2008. Although it would otherwise be required to do so, as a consequence of the Merger, the Company has received a waiver from the SEC to comply with the SEC’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that it furnish a report from its independent registered public accounting firm on its internal control over financial reporting with respect to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and it will not have to do so until it files its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Risks Related to the Merger The Company may be unable to successfully integrate its operations with the operations of NNN or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger which could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations and result in a decline in value of the Company’s common stock. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend in part upon the success of the two companies integrating their businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The companies may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully and integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses. The necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The companies operate numerous systems, including those involving management information, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance. The integration of certain operations following the Merger will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day business of the Company. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt the business of the Company. The companies may not be able to achieve the anticipated long-term strategic benefits of the Merger. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the Merger, as well as any delays encountered, or additional costs incurred, in the integration process, could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the Company, which may affect the value of the shares of the Company’s common stock. 16 Table of Contents Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of the Company’s common stock. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, NNN was considered the acquirer of the Company for accounting purposes. NNN accounted for the Merger using the purchase method of accounting, which resulted in charges to the Company’s earnings that could adversely affect the market value of the Company’s common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, NNN allocated the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the Company based on their fair values as of the date of the completion of the Merger, and the Company recorded any excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. For certain tangible and intangible assets, reevaluating their fair values as of the completion date of the Merger resulted in the Company incurring additional depreciation and/or amortization expense that exceeds the combined amounts recorded by NNN and the Company prior to the Merger. This increased expense will be recorded by the Company over the useful lives of the underlying assets. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets are to become impaired, the Company may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of those assets. The Company incurred significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the Merger. The Company incurred a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies, the substantial majority of which were the transaction costs related to the Merger, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. Merger related transaction costs of $6.4 million were incurred by the Company as a result of completing the transaction. The Company also incurred transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although the Company expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses should allow it to offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Transaction Services and Management Services Business GERA, the special purpose acquisition company sponsored by and an affiliate of the Company, must liquidate and dissolve, which could damage the Company’s reputation, and will cause the Company to lose its investment and potential revenue. GERA did not obtain the requisite stockholders’ approvals at its special meeting of stockholders held on February 28, 2008 and did not effect a business combination prior to March 3, 2008, as required by its charter. As a consequence, GERA is required to dissolve and liquidate, which could harm the Company because of its association with that entity. Some of the ways that the Company could be harmed are: • It could damage the Company’s reputation, because of its close association with GERA. The liquidation and dissolution of GERA could damage the Company’s reputation and, as a result, may hinder its ability to retain or attract new customers and clients. • The Company will lose its entire investment in GERA. The Company will write off in the first quarter of 2008 its investment in GERA of approximately $5.6 million, including its stock and warrant purchases, operating advances and third party costs. • The Company will continue to own the three commercial properties and is required to sell them by September 30, 2008. As a result of GERA’s liquidation, the Company will continue to own the three commercial real estate properties it intended to transfer to GERA. These properties are subject to mortgage loans provided by Wachovia Bank, N.A. for an aggregate principal amount of $120.5 million. Under the terms of its current credit facility, the Company is required to sell these properties by September 30, 2008. • No assurance that the Company will not suffer a loss upon resale. As noted directly above, the Company is required under its credit facility to sell the properties by September 30, 2008. Given the 17 Table of Contents recent downturn in the credit markets, there can be no assurances that these properties can be sold for an amount that will cover the Company’s costs of acquiring and holding the properties, or that the Company will not suffer a loss on the disposition of the properties. • The Company will lose the opportunity to earn revenues and fees in accordance with the terms and conditions of its agreements with GERA. The Company entered into various agreements with GERA, pursuant to which the Company was to serve as its exclusive provider of commercial real estate brokerage and consulting services related to real property acquisitions, dispositions, project management and agency leasing, and was to also serve as the sole exclusive managing agent for all real property acquired by GERA. The liquidation and dissolution of GERA will prevent the Company from earning any fees under these agreements. The Company’s quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate due to the seasonal nature of its business and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of its securities to decline. Historically, the majority of the Company’s revenue has been derived from the transaction services that it provides. Such services are typically subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company typically experiences its lowest quarterly revenue in the quarter ending March 31 of each year with higher and more consistent revenue in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30. The quarter ending December 31 has historically provided the highest quarterly level of revenue due to increased activity caused by the desire of clients to complete transactions by calendar year-end. However, the Company’s non-variable operating expenses, which are treated as expenses when incurred during the year, are relatively constant in total dollars on a quarterly basis. As a result, since a high proportion of these operating expenses are fixed, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in a quarter. In addition, the Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If the Company’s quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of the Company’s securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. If the properties that the Company manages fail to perform, then its business and results of operations could be harmed. The Company’s success partially depends upon the performance of the properties it manages. The revenue the Company generates from its property management business is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of the Company’s control: • the Company’s ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; • the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; • the Company’s ability to control operating expenses; • governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; • various uninsurable risks; • financial conditions prevailing generally and in the areas in which these properties are located; • the nature and extent of competitive properties; and • the general real estate market. These or other factors may negatively impact the properties that the Company manages, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If the Company fails to comply with laws and regulations applicable to real estate brokerage and mortgage transactions and other business lines, then it may incur significant financial penalties. Due to the broad geographic scope of the Company’s operations and the numerous forms of real estate services performed, it is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations specific to the services performed. For example, the brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions requires the Company to maintain brokerage licenses in each state in which it operates. If the Company fails to maintain its licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license, then it may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or return commissions received or have licenses suspended. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. The failure to comply with both foreign and domestic regulations could result in significant financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property and facilities management activities. As a licensed real estate broker, the Company and its licensed employees and independent contractors that work for it are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject the Company or its employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that the Company or they brokered or managed. The Company could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales claiming that the Company did not fulfill its statutory obligations as a broker. In addition, in the Company’s property and facilities management businesses, it hires and supervises third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for its managed properties. While the Company’s role is limited to that of a supervisor, it may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Environmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business and/or cause the Company to incur costs for cleanup of hazardous substances or wastes or other environmental liabilities. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various environmental zoning restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company’s real estate brokerage business. In addition, a failure by the Company to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject it to liability to a buyer or lessee of property. In addition, in its role as a property manager, the Company could incur liability under environmental laws for the investigation or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at properties it currently or formerly managed, or at off-site locations where wastes from such properties were disposed. Such liability can be imposed without regard for the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or the Company’s knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination. Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site. The Company could also be held liable for property damage or personal injury claims alleged to result from environmental contamination, or from asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint present at the properties it manages. Insurance for such matters may not be available. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in 19 Table of Contents certain buildings, could increase the Company’s costs of legal compliance and potentially subject it to violations or claims. Although such costs have not had a material impact on its financial results or competitive position during fiscal year 2006 or 2007, the enactment of additional regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could cause it to incur significant costs in the future, and/or adversely impact its brokerage and management services businesses. Risks Related to the Company’s Asset Management and Broker-Dealer Business The Company currently provides its transaction and management services primarily to its programs. Its revenue depends on the number of its programs, on the price of the properties acquired or disposed of by these programs, and on the revenue generated by the properties under its management. The Company derives fees for investment management services based on a percentage of the price of the properties acquired or disposed of by its programs and for management services based on a percentage of the rental amounts of the properties in its programs. The Company is responsible for the management of all of the properties owned by its programs, but as of December 31, 2007 it had subcontracted the property management of approximately 28.0% of its programs’ office, healthcare office and retail properties (based on square footage) and of its programs’ multi-family apartment units to third parties. As a result, if any of the Company’s programs are unsuccessful, both its transaction services and management services fees will be reduced, if any are paid at all. In addition, failures of the Company’s programs to provide competitive investment returns could significantly impair its ability to market future programs. The Company’s inability to spread risk among a large number of programs could cause it to be over-reliant on a limited number of programs for its revenues. The Company cannot make an assurance that it will maintain current levels of transaction and management services for its programs’ properties. The Company may be unable to grow its programs, which would cause it to fail to satisfy its business strategy. A significant element of the Company business strategy is the growth in the number of its programs. The consummation of any future program will be subject to raising adequate capital for the investment, identifying appropriate assets for acquisition and effectively and efficiently closing the transactions. The Company cannot make an assurance that it will be able to identify and invest in additional properties or will be able to raise adequate capital for new programs in the future. If the Company is unable to consummate new programs in the future, it will not be able to continue to grow the revenue it receives from either transaction or management services. The inability to access investors for the Company’ programs through broker-dealers or other intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s ability to source capital for its programs depends significantly on access to the client base of securities broker-dealers and other financial investment intermediaries that may offer competing investment products. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to continue to maintain these relationships as well as finding additional securities broker-dealers to facilitate offerings by its programs or to find investors for the Company’s TIC programs. The Company cannot be sure that it will continue to gain access to these channels. In addition, competition for capital is intense, and the Company may not be able to obtain the capital required to complete a program. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The termination of any of the Company’s broker-dealer relationships, especially given the limited number of key broker-dealers, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s securities programs are sold through third-party broker-dealers who are members of its selling group. While the Company has established relationships with its selling group, it is required to enter into a new agreement with each member of the selling group for each new program it offers. In addition, the 20 Table of Contents Company’s programs may be removed from a selling broker-dealer’s approved program list at any time for any reason. The Company cannot assure you of the continued participation of existing members of its selling group nor can the Company make an assurance that its selling group will expand. While the Company continues to diversify and add new investment channels for its programs, a significant portion of the growth in recent years in the number of TIC programs it sponsors and in its REITs has been as a result of capital raised by a relatively limited number of broker-dealers. Loss of any of these key broker-dealer relationships, or the failure to develop new relationships to cover the Company’s expanding business through new investment channels, could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Misconduct by third-party selling broker-dealers or the Company’s sales force, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company relies on selling broker-dealers and the Company’s sales force to properly offer its securities programs to customers in compliance with its selling agreements and with applicable regulatory requirements. While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against the Company. A significant amount of the Company’s revenue is derived from fees earned through the transaction structuring and property management of its TIC programs, which programs rely primarily on Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code to provide for deferral of capital gains taxes to make these programs attractive. A change in this tax code section or a complete revocation of this section as it relates specifically to TICs could result in a loss of a significant part of the Company’s business, and as a result, a significant amount of revenue. Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for the deferral of capital gains taxes which would ordinarily arise from the sale of real estate through a tax-deferred exchange of property, which defers the recognition of capital gains tax until such time as the replacement property is sold in a taxable transaction. These transactions are referred to as 1031 exchanges. In 2002, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, issued advance ruling guidelines outlining the requirements for properly structured TIC arrangements, which the Company believes validate the TIC structure generally and as it employs it. However, as recently as May 2006, the Senate Finance Committee proposed a bill in the negotiations over the budget reconciliation tax-cutting package to modify Section 1031 treatment for TICs as a way to raise additional tax revenue. The proposal was unsuccessful, but the Company cannot assure you that in the future there will not be attempts to limit or disallow the tax deferral benefits for TIC transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 12% of the Company’s total revenue was derived from TIC acquisition fees. If the Company were no longer able to structure TIC programs as 1031 exchanges for its investors, it would lose a significant amount of revenue in the future, which would materially affect its results of operations. Moreover, any attempt to limit or disallow the tax deferral benefits of the 1031 exchange generally would have a material adverse effect on the real estate industry generally and on the Company’s business and results of operations. A significant amount of the Company’s programs are structured to provide favorable tax treatment to investors or REITs. If a program fails to satisfy the requirements necessary to permit this favorable tax treatment, the Company could be subject to claims by investors and its reputation for structuring these transactions would be negatively affected, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company structures TIC programs and public non-traded REITs to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. For example, its TIC investors are able to defer the recognition of gain on sale of investment or business property if they enter into a 1031 exchange. Similarly, qualified REITs generally are not subject to federal income tax at corporate rates, which permits REITs to make larger distributions to investors (i.e. without reduction for federal income tax imposed at the corporate level). If the Company fails to properly structure a TIC transaction or if a REIT fails to satisfy the complex requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, the Company could be subject to claims by investors as a result of additional tax they may be required to pay or because they are unable to receive the distributions they 21 Table of Contents expected at the time they made their investment. In addition, any failure to satisfy applicable tax regulations in structuring its programs would negatively affect the Company’s reputation, which would in turn affect its ability to earn additional fees from new programs. Claims by investors could lead to losses and any reduction in the Company’s fees would have a material adverse effect on its revenues. Any future co-investment activities the Company undertakes could subject it to real estate investment risks which could lead to the need for substantial capital contributions, which may impact its cash flows and financial condition and, if it is unable to make them, could damage its reputation and result in adverse consequences to its holdings. The Company may from time to time invest its capital in certain real estate investments with other real estate firms or with institutional investors such as pension plans. Any co-investment will generally require the Company to make initial capital contributions, and some co-investment entities may request additional capital from the Company and its subsidiaries holding investments in those assets. These contributions could adversely impact the Company’s cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, the failure to provide these contributions could have adverse consequences to the Company’s interests in these investments. These adverse consequences could include damage to the Company’s reputation with its co-investment partners as well as dilution of ownership and the necessity of obtaining alternative funding from other sources that may be on disadvantageous terms, if available at all. Geographic concentration of program properties may expose the Company’s programs to regional economic downturns that could adversely impact their operations and, as a result, the fees the Company is able to generate from them, including fees on disposition of the properties as the Company may be limited in its ability to dispose of properties in a challenging real estate market. The Company’s programs generally focus on acquiring assets satisfying particular investment criteria, such as type or quality of tenants. There is generally no or little focus on the geographic location of a particular property. The Company cannot guarantee, however, that its programs will have, or will be able to maintain, a significant amount of geographic diversity. Although the Company’s property programs are located in 30 states, a majority of these properties (by square footage) are located in Texas, California, Florida and Colorado. Geographic concentration of properties exposes the Company’s programs to economic downturns in the areas where the properties are located. A regional recession or other major, localized economic disruption in a region, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, in any of these areas could adversely affect the Company’s programs’ ability to generate or increase their operating revenues, attract new tenants or dispose of unproductive properties. Any reduction in program revenues would effectively reduce the fees the Company generates from them, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The failure of Triple Net Properties, LLC, recently renamed Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, LLC (“GERI”) and Triple Net Properties Realty, Inc. (“Realty”), subsidiaries of the Company acquired in the Merger, to hold certain required real estate licenses may subject Realty and the Company to penalties, such as fines, restitution payments and termination of management agreements, and to the suspension or revocation of certain broker licenses. Although Realty was required to have real estate licenses in states in which it acted as a broker for NNN’s investment programs and received real estate commissions prior to 2007, Realty did not hold a license in certain of those states when it earned fees for those services. In addition, almost all of GERI’s revenue was based on an arrangement with Realty to share fees from NNN’s programs. GERI did not hold a real estate license in any state, although most states in which properties of NNN’s programs were located may have required GERI to hold a license in order to share fees. As a result, Realty and the Company may be subject to penalties, such as fines (which could be a multiple of the amount received), restitution payments and termination of management agreements, and to the suspension or revocation of certain of Realty’s real estate broker licenses. 22 Table of Contents If third-party managers providing property management services for the Company’s programs’ office, healthcare office, retail and multi-family properties are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, the tenants may not renew their leases or the Company may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company has entered into agreements with third-party management companies to provide property management services for a significant number of the Company’s programs’ properties, and the Company expects to enter into similar third-party management agreements with respect to properties the Company’s programs acquire in the future. The Company does not supervise these third-party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and the Company cannot assure you that they will manage the Company’s programs’ properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under the Company’s agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to the Company. If any of the foregoing occurs, the relationships with the Company’s programs’ tenants could be damaged, which may cause the tenants not to renew their leases, and the Company could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to the properties or to persons at the properties. If the Company is unable to lease the properties or the Company become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third-party management performance issues, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be substantially harmed. The Company or its new programs may be required to incur future indebtedness to raise sufficient funds to purchase properties. One of the Company’s business strategies is to develop new programs. The development of a new program requires the identification and subsequent acquisition of properties when the opportunity arises. In some instances, in order to effectively and efficiently complete a program, the Company may provide deposits for the acquisition of property or actually purchase the property and warehouse it temporarily for the program. If the Company does not have cash on hand available to pay these deposits or fund an acquisition, the Company or the Company’s programs may be required to incur additional indebtedness, which indebtedness may not be available on acceptable terms. If the Company incurs substantial debt, the Company could lose its interests in any properties that have been provided as collateral for any secured borrowing, or the Company could lose its assets if the debt is recourse to it. In addition, the Company’s cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay these obligations upon their maturity, making it necessary for the Company to raise additional capital or dispose of some of its assets. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to borrow additional debt on satisfactory terms, or at all. The Company may be required to repay loans the Company guaranteed that were used to finance properties acquired by the Company’s programs. From time to time the Company provides guarantees of loans for properties under management. As of December 31, 2007, there were 143 properties under management with loan guarantees of approximately $3.4 billion in total principal outstanding with terms ranging from one to 30 years, secured by properties with a total aggregate purchase price of approximately $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007. The Company’s guarantees consisted of the following as of December 31, 2007. December 31, (In thousands) 2007 Non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of debt of properties under management(1) $ 3,167,447 Non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of the Company’s debt(1) $ 221,430 Guarantees of the Company’s mezzanine debt $ 48,790 Recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management $ 47,399 Recourse guarantees of the Company’s debt $ 10,000 (1) A “non-recourse/carve-out” guaranty imposes personal liability on the guarantor in the event the borrower engages in certain acts prohibited by the loan documents. 23 Table of Contents Management evaluates these guarantees to determine if the guarantee meets the criteria required to record a liability in accordance with FASB Financial Interpretation No. 45, Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (“FIN No. 45”). The liability was insignificant as of December 31, 2007. The revenue streams from the Company’s management services may be subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which the Company provides advisory and management services to public non-traded REITs may generally be terminated by each REIT following a notice period, with or without cause. The Company cannot assure you that these agreements will not be terminated. In addition, if the Company has a significant amount of TIC programs selling their properties or public non-traded REITs liquidating in the same period, the Company’s revenues would decrease unless it is able to find replacement programs to generate new fees. The Company is currently in the process of liquidating two of its public non-traded REITs and, as a result, the Company’s management fees from these REITs have been reduced due to the number of properties that have been sold. Any decrease in the Company’s fees, as a result of termination of a contract or customary close out or liquidation of a program, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s revenue is subject to volatility in capital raising efforts by it. The potential growth in revenue from the Company’s transaction and management services depends in large part on future capital raising in existing or future programs, as well as on the Company’s ability to make resultant acquisitions on behalf of its programs, both of which are subject to uncertainty, including uncertainty with respect to capital market and real estate market conditions. This uncertainty can create volatility in the Company’s earnings because of the resulting increased volatility in transaction and management services revenues. The Company’s revenue may be negatively affected by factors that include not only the Company’s inability to increase its portfolio of properties under management, but also changes in valuation of those properties and sales (through planned liquidation or otherwise) of properties. Future pressures to lower, waive or credit back the Company’s fees could reduce the Company’s revenue and profitability. The Company has on occasion waived or credited its fees for real estate acquisitions and financings for the Company’s TIC programs to improve projected investment returns and attract TIC investors. There has also been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the third-party asset management business, and fees paid for the management of properties in the Company’s TIC programs or public non-traded REITs could follow these trends. In order for the Company to maintain its fee structure in a competitive environment, the Company must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its current fee structures. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. Regulatory uncertainties related to the Company’s broker-dealer services could harm the Company’s business. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. The SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on an internal system to ensure compliance, as well as the ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. The Company could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance with these securities regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. 24 Table of Contents The Company depends upon its programs’ tenants to pay rent, and their inability to pay rent may substantially reduce the fees the Company receives which are based on gross rental amounts. The Company’s programs are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real estate. For example, the income the Company is able to generate from management fees is derived from the gross rental income on the properties in its programs. The rental income depends upon the ability of the tenants of the Company’s programs’ properties to generate enough income to make their lease payments to the Company. Changes beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to make lease payments or could require them to terminate their leases. Either an inability to make lease payments or a termination of one or more leases could reduce the management fees the Company receives. These changes include, among others, the following: • downturns in national or regional economic conditions where the Company’s programs’ properties are located, which generally will negatively impact the demand and rental rates; • changes in local market conditions such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease or new construction, or a reduction in demand for properties in the Company’s programs, making it more difficult for the Company’s programs to lease space at attractive rental rates or at all; • competition from other available properties, which could cause the Company’s programs to lose current or prospective tenants or cause them to reduce rental rates; and • changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. Due to these changes, among others, tenants and lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments. Defaults by tenants or the failure of any guarantors of tenants’ guarantor to fulfill their obligations, or other early termination of a lease could, depending upon the size of the leased premises and the Company’s ability as property manager to successfully find a substitute tenant, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Conflicts of interest inherent in transactions between the Company’s programs and the Company, and among its programs, could create liability for the Company that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. These conflicts include but are not limited to the following: • the Company experiences conflicts of interests with certain of its directors, officers and affiliates from time to time with regard to any of its investments, transactions and agreements in which it holds a direct or indirect pecuniary interest; • since the Company receives both management fees and acquisition and disposition fees for its programs’ properties, the Company could be in conflict with its programs over whether their properties should be sold or held by the program and the Company may make decisions or take actions based on factors other than in the best interest of investors of a particular sponsored investor program; • a component of the compensation of certain of the Company’s executives is based on the performance of particular programs, which could cause the executives to favor those programs over others; • the Company may face conflicts of interests as to how it allocates property acquisition opportunities or prospective tenants among competing programs; • the Company may face conflicts of interests if programs sell properties to each other or invest in each other; • all agreements and arrangements, including those relating to compensation, among the Company and its programs, are generally not the result of arm’s-length negotiations; and 25 Table of Contents • the Company’s executive officers will devote only as much of their time to a program as they determine is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than their full time; during times of intense activity in other programs, these officers may devote less time and fewer resources to a program than are necessary or appropriate to manage the program’s business. The Company cannot assure you that one or more of these conflicts will not result in claims by investors in its programs, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing SEC investigation of Triple Net Properties and its affiliates could adversely impact the Company’s ability to conduct its real estate investment programs. On September 16, 2004, Triple Net Properties learned that the SEC Los Angeles Enforcement Division, (the “SEC Staff”), was conducting an investigation referred to as “In the matter of Triple Net Properties, LLC.” The SEC Staff requested information from Triple Net Properties relating to disclosure in public and private securities offerings sponsored by Triple Net Properties and its affiliates prior to 2005 (the “Triple Net Securities Offerings”). The SEC Staff also requested information from NNN Capital Corp., (“Capital Corp”), the dealer-manager for the Triple Net Securities Offerings. The SEC Staff requested financial and other information regarding the Triple Net Securities Offerings and the disclosures included in the related offering documents from each of Triple Net Properties and Capital Corp. Triple Net Properties and Capital Corp. are engaged in settlement negotiations with the SEC staff regarding this matter. Based on these negotiations, the Company believes that the conclusion to this matter will not result in a material adverse affect to its results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct its business and NNN accrued a loss contingency of $600,000 at December 31, 2006 on behalf of Triple Net Properties and Capital Corp. on a consolidated basis, compared to $1.0 million accrued for the same period in 2005. The $600,000 is being held in escrow pending final approval of the settlement agreement. The settlement negotiations are continuing, however, and any settlement negotiated with the SEC Staff must be approved by the Commissioners. Since the matter is not concluded, it remains subject to the risk that the SEC may seek additional remedies, including substantial fines and injunctive relief that, if obtained, could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct its program offerings. Additionally, any resolution of this matter that reflects negatively on the Company’s reputation could materially and adversely affect the willingness of the Company’s existing programs to continue to use the Company’s management services and of potential investors to invest in the Company’s future programs. The matters that are the subject of this investigation could also give rise to claims against the Company by investors in the Company’s programs. At this time, the Company cannot assess how or when the outcome of the matter will be ultimately determined. To the extent that the Company pays the SEC an amount in excess of $1.0 million in connection with any settlement or other resolution of this matter, Anthony W. Thompson, NNN’s founder and former Chairman of the Company, has agreed to forfeit to the Company up to 1,064,800 shares of the Company’s common stock. In connection with this arrangement, the Company has entered into an escrow agreement with Mr. Thompson and an independent escrow agent, pursuant to which the escrow agent holds these 1,064,800 shares of Company common stock that are otherwise issuable to Mr. Thompson in connection with the NNN formation transactions to secure Mr. Thompson’s obligations to the Company. Mr. Thompson’s liability under this arrangement will not exceed the value of the shares in the escrow. The above indemnification expires upon the entry of a final settlement order in connection with the SEC matter. The offerings conducted to raise capital for the Company’s TIC programs are done in reliance on exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. A failure to satisfy the requirements for the appropriate exemption could void the offering or, if it is already completed, provide the investors with rescission rights, either of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and as a result its business and results of operations. The securities of the Company’s TIC programs are offered and sold in reliance upon a private placement offering exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. If the Company or its dealer-manager failed to comply with the requirements of the relevant exemption and an 26 Table of Contents offering were in process, the Company may have to terminate the offering. If an offering was completed, the investors may have the right, if they so desired, to rescind their purchase of the securities. A rescission offer could also be required under applicable state securities laws and regulations in states where any securities were offered without registration or qualification pursuant to a private offering or other exemption. If a number of holders sought rescission at one time, the applicable program would be required to make significant payments which could adversely affect its business and as a result, the fees generated by the Company from such program. If one of the Company’s programs was forced to terminate an offering before it was completed or to make a rescission offer, the Company’s reputation would also likely be significantly harmed. Any reduction in fees as a result of a rescission offer or a loss of reputation would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. An increase in interest rates may negatively affect the equity value of the Company’s programs or cause the Company to lose potential investors to alternative investments, causing the fees the Company receives for transaction and management services to be reduced. In the last two years, interest rates in the United States have generally increased. If interest rates were to continue to rise, the Company’s financing costs would likely rise and the Company’s net yield to investors may decline. This downward pressure on net yields to investors in the Company’s programs could compare poorly to rising yields on alternative investments. Additionally, as interest rates rise, valuations of commercial real estate properties typically decline. A decrease in both the attractiveness of the Company’s programs and the value of assets held by these programs could cause a decrease in both transaction and management services revenues, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede the Company’s ability to make future acquisitions which would reduce the fees the Company generates from these programs and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, national and regional level. The Company’s programs face competition from REITs, institutional pension plans, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors for the acquisition of properties and for raising capital to create programs to make these acquisitions. Competition may prevent the Company’s programs from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price they must pay for real estate. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If the Company’s programs pay higher prices for properties, investors may experience a lower return on investment and be less inclined to invest in the Company’s next program which may decrease the Company’s profitability. Increased competition for properties may also preclude the Company’s programs from acquiring properties that would generate the most attractive returns to investors or may reduce the number of properties the Company’s programs could acquire, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the Company’s programs’ properties and harm the Company’s financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to promptly facilitate a sale of one or more properties or investments in the Company’s programs in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in the market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in regional, national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Fees from the disposition of properties would be materially affected if the Company were unable to facilitate a significant number of property dispositions for the Company’s programs. 27 Table of Contents Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. The Company carries commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to the Company’s programs’ properties. The Company obtains coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that the Company believes are customarily carried for similar properties. The Company cannot assure you, however, that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be insurable on an economic basis or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available. In addition, the Company generally does not obtain insurance against certain risks, such as floods. Should a property sustain damage or an occupant sustain an injury, the Company may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, co-payments on insured losses or uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss or personal injury, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full damages. In the event of an uninsured loss, the Company could lose some or all of its capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds the Company receives, if any, might not be adequate to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to the property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties in the Company’s programs, the remaining insurance under the applicable policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure the remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than the current policy. A loss at any of these properties or an increase in premium as a result of a loss could decrease the income from or value of properties under management in the Company’s programs, which in turn would reduce the fees the Company receives from these programs. Any decrease or loss in fees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 