ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. A large portion of our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, and the level of mortgage refinancing, generally affect demand for our products. Higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. The decline in economic activity and conditions in the markets in which we operate has, and may continue to, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. The financial crisis could adversely affect our business and financial performance. The ongoing financial crisis has tightened credit markets and lowered liquidity levels. Lower credit availability may increase borrowing costs. Some of our suppliers are experiencing serious financial problems due to reduced access to credit and lower revenues. Financial duress may prompt some of our suppliers to seek to renegotiate terms with us, reduce production or file for bankruptcy protection. Our customers may be unable to obtain financing to purchase products and meet their payment obligations to us. The occurrence of these events may adversely affect our operations, earnings, cash flows and/or financial position. We face significant competition from national, regional and local retailers of home furnishings. The retail market for home furnishings is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national department stores, regional or independent specialty stores, and dedicated franchises of furniture manufacturers. National mass merchants such as COSTCO also have limited product offerings. We also compete with retailers that market products through store catalogs and the Internet. In addition, there are few barriers to entry into our current and contemplated markets, and new competitors may enter our current or future markets at any time. 5 We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower costs and better sustain economic downturns. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to promotion and sale of products. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: · aggressive advertising, pricing and marketing; · extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we offer; · larger store size, which may result in greater operational efficiencies, wider product assortments or innovative store formats; · adoption of improved retail sales methods; and · expansion by our existing competitors or entry by new competitors into markets where we currently operate. Competition from any of these sources could cause us to lose market share, revenues and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. Our ability to maintain and increase revenues depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products. We believe that the introduction and consumer acceptance of our proprietary Havertys brand is a significant part of our ability to maintain or increase revenues. These products are subject to fashion changes and pricing limitations which could affect the success of these and other new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our sales may decline. Our products must appeal to our target consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to fashion trends relating to home furnishings. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products may decline. In addition, we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors in advance of proposed delivery dates. Significant deviation from the projected demand for products that we sell may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to reduce prices to dispose of excess inventory. We import a substantial portion of our merchandise from foreign sources. Changes in exchange rates or tariffs could impact the price we pay for these goods, resulting in potentially higher retail prices and/or lower gross profit on these goods. During 2009, approximately 71% of our furniture purchases, on a dollar basis were for goods not produced domestically. All of these purchases were denominated in U.S. dollars. As exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies become unfavorable, the likelihood of price increases from our vendors increases. Some of the products we purchase are also subject to tariffs. If tariffs are imposed on additional products or the tariff rates are increased our vendors may increase their prices. Such price increases, if they occur, could have one or more of the following impacts: · we could be forced to raise retail prices so high that we are unable to sell the products at current unit volumes; 6 · if we are unable to raise retail prices commensurately with the costs increases, gross profit as recognized under our LIFO inventory accounting method could be negatively impacted; or · we may be forced to find alternative sources of comparable product, which may be more expensive than the current product, of lower quality, or the vendor may be unable to meet our requirements for quality, quantities, delivery schedules or other key terms. Fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and components could adversely affect our profits. The primary materials our vendors use to produce and manufacture our products are various woods and wood products, resin, steel, leather, cotton, and certain oil based products. On a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. Significant increases in these and other costs in the future could materially affect our vendors’ costs and our profits as discussed above. As a result of our reliance on foreign sourcing our ability to service customers could be adversely affected and result in lower sales and earnings. Our overseas vendors may not supply goods that meet our quality specifications or are in conformity with the regulations set forth in the Consumer Product Safety Improvements Act or other federal regulations. If suppliers do not provide a general conformity certificate then U.S. Customs may turn the goods away at the port. We may reject product that does not meet our specifications. Accordingly, we may be forced to find alternative sourcing arrangements at a higher cost or to discontinue the product. Our revenue could be adversely affected by a disruption in our supply chain. Disruptions to our supply chain could result in late arrivals of product. This could negatively affect sales due to increased levels of out-of-stock merchandise and loss of confidence by customers in our ability to deliver goods as promised. The rise of oil and gasoline prices could affect our profitability. A significant increase in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect our profitability. Our distribution system, which utilizes three distribution centers and multiple home delivery centers to reach our markets across 17 Southern and Midwestern states, is very transportation dependent. Additionally, we deliver substantially all of our customers’ purchases to their homes. If transportation costs exceed amounts we are able to effectively pass on to the consumer, either by higher prices and/or higher delivery charges, then our profitability will suffer. Our business depends on our ability to meet our labor needs. Our success depends on hiring and retaining quality managers and sales associates to maintain consistency in the high level of customer service in our stores. Also, our sales associates are compensated under a commission structure which historically fosters a high rate of turnover. We are also dependent on the employees who staff our distribution centers, many of whom are skilled. We may be unable to meet our labor needs and control our costs due to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and wage inflation. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. 7 Because of our limited number of distribution centers, should one become damaged, our operating results could suffer. We utilize three large distribution centers to flow our merchandise from the vendor to the consumer. This system is very efficient for reducing inventory requirements, but makes us operationally vulnerable should one of these facilities become damaged. Our information technology infrastructure is vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our ability to operate our business from day to day, in particular our ability to manage our point-of-sale, credit operations and distribution system, largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to communicate customer information, provide real-time inventory information, manage our credit portfolio and to handle all facets of our distribution system from receiving of goods in the DCs to delivery to our customers’ homes. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · power loss, computer systems failures and Internet, telecommunications or data network failures. · operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; · physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; · computer viruses; · intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and · tornadoes, fires, floods and other natural disasters. Any failure due to any of these causes, if it is not supported by our disaster recovery plan and redundant systems, could cause an interruption in our operations and result in reduced net sales and profitability. We may incur costs resulting from security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our stores. During 2009, approximately 50% of our sales were attributable to credit card transactions, and credit card usage could continue to increase. We may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects. Significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes could adversely affect our financial results. We have a funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covers most of our employees. We also have an unfunded non-qualified, non-contributory supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP). The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code govern the funding obligations for our pension plans. Our defined benefit plan was frozen as of December 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. For 2007 and beyond, Havertys employees may participate in our enhanced defined contribution plan. As of December 31, 2009, our projected benefit obligations under our retirement plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $14.4 million ($9.6 million of which was 8 attributable to the defined pension plan and $4.8 million of which was attributable to the SERP). Estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include the discount rates and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. These assumptions are subject to change based on interest rates on high quality bonds, and stock and bond market returns. Significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our retirement plan obligations and related future contributions and expense. The terms of our revolving credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may constrain our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. This constraint could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our current revolving credit facility contains provisions which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of capital stock in certain circumstances, make particular types of investments, incur certain types of liens, pay cash dividends, redeem capital stock, consummate mergers of certain sizes, enter into transactions with affiliates or make substantial asset sales. In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by interests in substantially all of our personal property, primarily our inventories, accounts receivable and cash, excluding store and distribution center equipment and fixtures. In the event of a significant loss in value of our inventory the amount available to borrow will be reduced and may place us in default. In the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt and/or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms could be obtained. Use of Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes include estimates and assumptions made by Management that affect reported amounts. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 