Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company’s Business in General We currently have restricted borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility, our senior secured credit facility imposes operating restrictions and covenants which the Company may be unable to maintain compliance with in future periods, and in an event of default, all of our borrowings would become immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility imposes, and any further amendment or refinancing thereof, may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company and many of its subsidiaries. These restrictions will affect, and in many respects will limit or prohibit, our ability and our guarantor subsidiaries’ abilities to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create liens; • make investments; • transfer or sell assets, including the stock of subsidiaries; • enter into mergers or consolidations; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue shares of preferred stock; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; and • pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock. As a condition to entering into the Third Amendment to the Credit Facility the lenders thereunder required the Company to submit for lender pre-approval the Approved Budget and the Recapitalization Plan. The Third Amendment eliminated specific financial covenants; however, the Third Amendment imposes restrictions on the Company’s ability to operate outside of the Approved Budget, subject to a permitted negative cumulative cash flow variance equal to the greater of (a) 15% cumulative negative variance between actual and projected cash flow in the Approved Budget for the applicable period and (b) a $1,500,000 cumulative negative variance 12 Table of Contents between actual and projected cash flow in the Approved Budget for the applicable period (the “Permitted Variance”); provided, however, that the Company’s failure to comply with the Permitted Variance, as a consequence of general economic conditions or otherwise, in any week shall not constitute an Event of Default unless such noncompliance has occurred for three consecutive calendar weeks. In addition the Third Amendment also requires the Company to implement the Recapitalization Plan and complete each step provided in the Recapitalization Plan by the dates set for such completion. In the event the Company fails to effect the Recapitalization Plan and in connection therewith to effect a Partial Prepayment on or before September 30, 2009, the (i) lenders will have the right commencing on October 1, 2009, to exercise the Warrants, for nominal consideration, to purchase common stock of the Company equal to 15% of the common stock of the Company on a fully diluted basis as of such date, subject to adjustment, (ii) the applicable margin automatically increases to 11% on prime rate loans and increases to 12% on LIBOR based loans, (iii) the Company shall be required to amortize an aggregate of $10 million of the Revolving Credit A Facility in three (3) equal installments on the first business day of each of the last three (3) months of 2009, (iv) the Company is obligated to submit a revised budget by October 1, 2009, (v) the Credit Facility will terminate on January 15, 2010, and (vi) no further advances may be drawn under the Credit Facility. In the event that the Credit Facility terminates on January 15, 2010, the Company will be required to repay the Credit Facility in its entirety at that time, and there can be no assurances that the Company will have access to alternative funding sources, or if such sources are available to the Company, that they will be on favorable terms and conditions to the Company. In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding Revolving Credit A Advances (and to the extent the Revolving Credit A Facility shall be reduced to zero, prepay outstanding Revolving Credit B Advances) in an amount equal to 100% (or, after the Revolving Credit A Advances are reduced by at least the Partial Prepayment amount, in an amount equal to 50%) of Net Cash Proceeds (as defined in the Credit Agreement) from: • assets sales, • conversions of Investments (as defined in the Credit Agreement), • the refund of any taxes or the sale of equity interests by the Company or its subsidiaries, • the issuance of debt securities, or • any other transaction or event occurring outside the ordinary course of business of the Company or its subsidiaries; provided, however, (a) that the Net Cash Proceeds received from the sale of the certain real property assets shall be used to prepay outstanding Revolving Credit B Advances and to the extent Revolving Credit B Advances shall be reduced to zero, to prepay outstanding Revolving Credit A Advances, (b) the Company shall prepay outstanding Revolving Credit B Advances in an amount equal to 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds from the sale of the Danbury Property unless the Company is then not in compliance with the Recapitalization Plan in which event Revolving Credit A Advances shall be prepaid first and (c) the Company’s 2008 tax refund was used to prepay outstanding Revolving Credit B Advances upon the closing of the Third Amendment. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by many events beyond its control and the Company’s future operating results may not allow the Company to comply with the covenants, or in the event of a default, to remedy that default. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to comply in future periods. The Company’s failure to comply with these covenants or to comply with the other restrictions contained in its Credit Facility could result in a default, which could cause such indebtedness under its existing Credit Facility to become immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the Credit Facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to the lenders to secure the debt, which is substantially all of the assets of the Company. In the event that the 13 Table of Contents Company is in default of its existing Credit Facility, the Company may seek to explore a variety of options, including but not limited to accessing alternative debt or equity capital or effective asset sales, although there can be no assurances that any such alternatives will be available to the Company, or, if available to the Company, on terms and conditions favorable to the Company. The restrictions contained in our Credit Facility could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs and adversely affect our ability to finance ongoing operations, acquisitions and investments. Based upon the Third Amendment to the Credit Facility, the Company did not have any further ability to borrow under the Credit Facility as of the date of the Third Amendment, as the Credit Facility was fully drawn. The Company may only borrow under the Revolving Credit B Facility to the extent that it repays outstanding Revolving Credit B Advances thereunder and such advances are used to pay expenses in compliance with the Approved Budget or to fund Permitted Cash Reserves (as defined in the Credit Facility). The ongoing downturn in the general economy and the real estate market has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, significantly reduced access to credit, declining employment levels, decreasing demand for real estate, declining real estate values or the perception that any of these events may occur, can reduce transaction volumes or demand for services for each of our business lines. The current recession and the downturn in the real estate market have resulted in and may continue to result in: • a decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity; • a decline in the supply of capital invested in commercial real estate; • a decline in fees collected from investment management programs, which are dependent upon demand for investment in commercial real estate; and • a decline in the value of real estate and in rental rates, which would cause the Company to realize lower revenue from: • property management fees, which in certain cases are calculated as a percentage of the revenue of the property under management; and • commissions or fees derived from property valuation, sales and leasing, which are typically based on the value, sale price or lease revenue commitment, respectively. The declining real estate market in the United States, the availability and cost of credit, increased unemployment, volatile oil prices, declining consumer confidence and the instability of United States banking and financial institutions, have contributed to increased volatility, an overall economic slowdown and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The fragile state of the credit markets, the fear of a global recession for an extended period and the current economic environment have impacted real estate services and investment management firms like ours through reduced transaction volumes, falling transaction values, lower real estate valuations, liquidity restrictions, market volatility, and the loss of confidence. As a consequence, similar to other real estate services and investment management firms, our stock price has declined significantly. These negative economic conditions have caused a reduced demand for overall amount of sale and leasing activity in the commercial real estate industry and the demand for our transaction and management services and investment management services. Our revenues and profitability depend upon on the overall demand for our services from our clients. As a result of the economic conditions in 2008, we were not in compliance with certain of our financial covenants under our Credit Facility as of September 30, 2008. In November 2008, the applicable financial covenants were amended for certain periods in the Second Letter Amendment to the Credit Facility effective as of September 30, 2008. We were not in compliance with certain debt covenants as of December 31, 2008, all of which were effectively cured as of such date by the Third Amendment. As a 14 Table of Contents consequence of the foregoing and certain provisions of the Third Amendment, the $63.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility has been classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2008. The Third Amendment restricts our ability to operate outside of the Approved Budget without the permission of the requisite majority of lenders. In addition, we are required to remit Net Cash Proceeds from the sale of assets including real estate assets to repay advances under the Credit Facility and pursue additional sources of capital in accordance with the Recapitalization Plan. All of these demands put the Company’s liquidity and financial resources at risk. Due the economic downturn, it may take us longer to dispose of real estate assets and investments and the selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. If this occurs, fees from transaction services will be reduced. In addition, the performance of certain properties in the investment management portfolio may be negatively impacted, which would likewise affect our fees. As a result, the carrying value of certain of our real estate investments may become impaired and we could record losses as a result of such impairment or we could experience reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. As of September 30, 2008, the Company initiated a plan to sell the properties it classified as real estate held for investment in its financial statements as of September 30, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s Credit Facility included a covenant which required the sale of certain of these assets before March 31, 2009. The downturn in the global credit markets significantly lessened the probability that the Company would be able to achieve relief from this covenant through amendment or other financial resolutions as of March 31, 2009. Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, the Company assessed the value of the assets. In addition, the Company reviewed the valuation of its other owned properties and real estate investments. This valuation review resulted in the Company recognizing an impairment charge of approximately $90.4 million against the carrying value of the properties and real estate investments during the year ended December 31, 2008. The Third Amendment to the Credit Facility requires the Company to (a) sell the Danbury Property by June 1, 2009, unless such date is extended with the applicable approval of the lenders and (b) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to sell the four other commercial properties, including the two other GERA Properties, by September 30, 2009. In order to satisfy the covenants in our Credit Agreement, we may be forced to reduce the purchase price of these properties in order to sell the properties which may result in further impairment. We are not able to predict the severity or duration of the current adverse economic environment or the disruption in the financial markets. The real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the overall economy and to the perceptions of investors, developers and other market participants as to the economic outlook. The ongoing downturn in the general economy and the real estate market has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The ongoing adverse developments in the credit markets and the risk of continued market deterioration have adversely affected the Company’s revenues, expenses and operating results and may continue to do so. Our business lines are sensitive to credit cost and availability as well as market place liquidity. In addition, the revenues in all our businesses are dependent to some extent on overall volume of activity and pricing in the commercial real estate market. In 2008, the credit markets experienced an unprecedented level of disruption and uncertainty. This disruption and uncertainty has reduced the availability and significantly increased the cost of most sources of funding. In certain cases, sources of funding have been eliminated. Disruptions in the credit markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business of providing services to owners, purchasers, sellers, investors and occupants of real estate in connection with acquisitions, dispositions and leasing of real property. If our clients are unable to obtain credit on favorable terms, there will be fewer completed acquisitions, dispositions and leases of property. In addition, if purchasers of real estate are not able to obtain favorable financing resulting in a lack of disposition opportunities for funds whom we act as advisor, our fee revenues will decline and we may also experience losses on real estate held for investment. 15 Table of Contents The recent decline in real estate values and the inability to obtain financing has either eliminated or severely reduced the availability of the Company’s historical funding sources for its investment management programs, and to the extent credit remains available for these programs, it is currently more expensive. The Company may not be able to continue to access sources of funding for its investment management programs or, if available to the Company, the Company may not be able to do so on favorable terms. Any decision by lenders to make additional funds available to the Company in the future for its investment management programs will depend upon a number of factors, such as industry and market trends in our business, the lenders’ own resources and policies concerning loans and investments, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. The depth and duration of the current credit market and liquidity disruptions are impossible to predict. In fact, the magnitude of the recent credit market disruption has exceeded the expectations of most if not all market participants. This uncertainty limits the Company’s ability to develop future business plans and the Company believes that it limits the ability of other participants in the credit markets and the real estate markets to do so as well. This uncertainty may lead market participants to act more conservatively than in recent history, which may continue to depress demand and pricing in our markets. If the Company fails to meet its payment or other obligations under its senior secured credit facility, then the lenders under such credit facility could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of its assets. Any material downturn in the Company’s revenue or increase in its costs and expenses could impair its ability to meet its debt obligations. The Company’s lenders under the senior secured Credit Facility have a lien on substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of the Company’s subsidiaries including their respective accounts receivable, cash, general intangibles, investment property and future acquired material property. If the Company fails to meet its payment or other obligations under the Credit Facility, the lenders under such Credit Facility will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Company’s subsidiaries and liquidate these assets. We experienced additional, unanticipated costs and may have additional risk and further costs as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. As a result of the restatement of certain audited and unaudited financial data, and the special investigation in connection therewith, we incurred substantial, additional unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees. The restatement and special investigation was also time-consuming and affected management’s attention and resources. Further, there are no assurances that we will not become involved in legal proceedings in the future in relation to these restatements. In connection with any such potential proceedings, any incurred expenses not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any such future legal proceedings could also be time-consuming and distract our management from the conduct of our business. The Company may not be able to obtain additional financing when the Company needs it or on acceptable terms, and any such financing, or the failure to obtain financing, may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. There can be no assurance that the anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet all of the Company’s cash requirements. The Company intends to continue to make investments to support the Company’s business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges. Accordingly, the Company may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. The Company cannot assure you that further equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If the market price of the Company’s common stock does not increase significantly the Company will have limited ability to address financing needs through an equity offering or such equity financing may result in significant dilution to existing stockholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financing may restrict the Company’s financial and operating flexibility. The Company’s inability to obtain any needed financing, or the terms on which it may be available, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 16 Table of Contents We have received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that we did not meet its continued listing requirements. If we are unable to rectify this non-compliance in accordance with NYSE rules, our common stock will be delisted from trading on the NYSE, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock. On February 20, 2009, we received notification from NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we were not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard requiring that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 per share over a 30 consecutive trading-day period. Under the NYSE’s rules, we normally would have six months, or until August 20, 2009, for our share price and average share price to comply with the share price standard. However, on February 26, 2009, the NYSE temporarily suspended the application of its continued listing criteria relating to a minimum average trading price of $1.00 until June 30, 2009. Companies currently below the $1.00 minimum level that do not regain compliance during the suspension period recommence their compliance period upon reinstitution of the share price standard and thereupon receive the remaining balance of their compliance period. If the share price and average share price of our common stock do not regain compliance with the $1.00 requirement during the suspension period, under the NYSE’s temporary rulemaking we will have until on or about December 20, 2009, in which to comply with the share price standard. If we are unable to regain compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard within the required time frame, our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE. As a result, we likely would have our common stock quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC BB”) in order to have our common stock continue to be traded on a public market. Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on the NYSE. Delisting from the NYSE also may preclude us from using certain state securities law exemptions, which could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital in the future and more difficult for us to provide compensation packages sufficient to attract and retain top talent. In addition, because issuers whose securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate governance and other standards imposed by the NYSE, and such issuers receive less news and analyst coverage, our reputation may suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our shares. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, therefore, could significantly disrupt the ability of investors to trade our common stock and could have a material adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our common stock. The Company is in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, some of which may have greater financial and operational resources than it does. The Company competes in a variety of service disciplines within the commercial real estate industry. Each of these business areas is highly competitive on a national as well as on a regional and local level. The Company faces competition not only from other national real estate service providers, but also from global real estate service providers, boutique real estate advisory firms, consulting and appraisal firms. Depending on the product or service, the Company also faces competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than the Company does. The Company is also subject to competition from other large national firms and from multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to it. Although many of the Company’s competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than it, some of its competitors are substantially larger than it on a local, regional, national or international basis. In general, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with respect to any of its business lines or on an overall basis, or to maintain current fee levels or margins, or maintain or increase its market share. The TIC business in general, from which the Company has historically generated significant revenues, materially contracted in 2008. The Company has historically generated significant revenues from fees earned through the transaction structuring and property management of its TIC Programs. In 2008, however, with the nationwide decline in real estate values and the global credit crises, the TIC industry contracted significantly. According to the research of OMNI, approximately $3.7 billion of TIC equity was raised in 2006. In 2008, the amount of TIC 17 Table of Contents equity raised declined by approximately 66% to $1.24 billion. Moreover, OMNI has indicated that based on the current year-to-date activity through the first part of 2009, should the current trends remain constant throughout the entire calendar year, the TIC industry would raise approximately $300.0 million in 2009, an approximately 90% decline from 2006. As the Company has historically generated a significant amount of revenue from its TIC operations, the rapid and steep decline in this industry may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations if it is unable to generate revenues in its other business segments, of which there can be no assurances, to make up for the loss of TIC-related revenues. As a service-oriented company, the Company depends on key personnel, and the loss of its current personnel or its failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm its business. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and the Company may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Since July 2008, the Company has been conducting a search to identify and hire a Chief Executive Officer. Shortly after the resignation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer in July 2008, the Company appointed an interim Chief Executive Officer. As of the date of filing this Form 10-K, the Company has not yet identified and hired a permanent Chief Executive Officer. The Company’s ability to attract new employees may be limited by certain restrictions in its senior secured credit facility, including limitations on cash bonus payments to new hires and may only make cash payments that exceed those limits if it receives approval from the administrative agent, which cannot be guaranteed. We use equity incentives to attract and retain our key personnel. In 2008, and the first quarter of 2009, our stock price declined significantly, resulting in the decline in value of previously provided equity awards, which may result in an increase risk of loss of key personnel. The performance of our stock may also diminish our ability to offer attractive incentive awards to new hires. The Company’s failure to recruit and retain necessary executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel could harm its business and its ability to obtain new customers. The Company plans to expand its business to include international operations that could subject it to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. Although the Company does not currently conduct significant business outside the United States, the Company intends to expand its business to include international operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully expand its business in international markets. Current global economic conditions may restrict, limit or delay the Company’s ability to expand its business into international markets or make such expansion less economically feasible. If the Company expands into international markets, circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect the Company’s business or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • lack of substantial experience operating in international markets; • lack of recognition of the Grubb & Ellis brand name in international markets; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • diverse foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; 18 Table of Contents • political instability; and • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in certain countries. Additionally, the Company may establish joint ventures with foreign entities for the provision of brokerage services abroad, which may involve the purchase or sale of the Company’s equity securities or the equity securities of the joint venture participant(s). In these joint ventures, the Company may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint venture and other participants may take action contrary to the Company’s instructions or requests and against the Company’s policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to the Company’s interest, then it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Failure to manage any future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management will need to successfully manage any future growth effectively. The Company has pursued an aggressive expansion strategy in the transaction services business. The integration and additional growth may place a significant strain upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The Company’s ability to grow also depends upon its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional executive officers and new employees, obtain financing for its capital needs, expand its systems effectively, allocate its human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between its transactional and management functions and its finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on its management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to the new geographic locations and business lines of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands it will face as it integrates and continues to expand its operations, and it may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Transaction Services and Management Services Business The Company’s quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate due to the seasonal nature of its business and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of its securities to decline. Historically, the majority of legacy Grubb & Ellis revenue has been derived from the transaction services that it provides. Such services are typically subject to seasonal fluctuations. Legacy Grubb & Ellis typically experienced its lowest quarterly revenue in the quarter ending March 31 of each year with higher and more consistent revenue in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30. The quarter ending December 31 has historically provided the highest quarterly level of revenue due to increased activity caused by the desire of clients to complete transactions by calendar year-end. However, the Company’s non-variable operating expenses, which are treated as expenses when incurred during the year, are relatively constant in total dollars on a quarterly basis. As a result, since a high proportion of these operating expenses are fixed, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in a quarter. In addition, the Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If the Company’s quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of the Company’s securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. If the properties that the Company manages fail to perform, then its business and results of operations could be harmed. The Company’s success partially depends upon the performance of the properties it manages. The Company could be adversely affected by the nonperformance of, or the deteriorating financial condition of, certain of its clients. The revenue the Company generates from its property management business is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will 19 Table of Contents depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of the Company’s control: • the Company’s ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; • the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; • the Company’s ability to control operating expenses; • governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; • various uninsurable risks; • financial condition of certain clients; • financial conditions prevailing generally and in the areas in which these properties are located; • the nature and extent of competitive properties; and • the general real estate market. These or other factors may negatively impact the properties that the Company manages, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. If the Company fails to comply with laws and regulations applicable to real estate brokerage and mortgage transactions and other business lines, then it may incur significant financial penalties. Due to the broad geographic scope of the Company’s operations and the real estate services performed, the Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations specific to the services performed. For example, the brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions requires the Company to maintain brokerage licenses in each state in which it operates. If the Company fails to maintain its licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license or violate any of the regulations applicable to our licenses, then it may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. The failure to comply with both foreign and domestic regulations could result in significant financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property and facilities management activities. As a licensed real estate broker, the Company and its licensed employees and independent contractors that work for it are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject the Company or its employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that the Company or they brokered or managed. The Company could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that the Company did not fulfill its statutory obligations as a broker. In addition, in the Company’s property and facilities management businesses, it hires and supervises third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for its managed properties. While the Company’s role is limited to that of a supervisor, the Company may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Environmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business and/or cause the Company to incur costs for cleanup of hazardous substances or wastes or other environmental liabilities. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various environmental zoning restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company’s real estate brokerage business. In addition, a failure by the Company to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject it to liability to a buyer or lessee of property. In addition, in its role as a property manager, the Company could incur liability under environmental laws for the investigation or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at properties it currently or formerly managed, or at off-site locations where wastes from such properties were disposed. Such liability can be imposed without regard for the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or the Company’s knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination. Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site. The Company could also be held liable for property damage or personal injury claims alleged to result from environmental contamination, or from asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint present at the properties it manages. Insurance for such matters may not be available or sufficient. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in certain buildings, could increase the Company’s costs of legal compliance and potentially subject it to violations or claims. Although such costs have not had a material impact on its financial results or competitive position during fiscal year 2006, 2007 or 2008, the enactment of additional regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could cause it to incur significant costs in the future, and/or adversely impact its brokerage and management services businesses. Risks Related to the Company’s Investment Management and Broker-Dealer Business Declines in asset value and reductions in distributions in investment programs could adversely affect the Company business, as it could cause harm to the Company’s reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and third-party broker-dealer selling agreements, limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and potentially expose the Company to legal liability. The current market value of many of the properties owned through the Company’s investment programs have recently decreased as a result of the overall decline in the economy and commercial real estate generally. In addition, there have been reductions in distributions in numerous investment programs in 2008, in certain instances to a zero percent distribution rate. Significant declines in value and reductions in distributions in the investment programs sponsored by the Company could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the Company’s ability to attract investors for future investment programs. In addition, significant declines in value and reductions in distributions could cause the Company to lose asset and property management contracts for its investment management programs, cause the Company to lose third-party broker-dealer selling agreements for existing investment programs, including its REITs, and limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer agreements. The loss of value may be significant enough to cause certain investment programs to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Significant losses in asset value and investor equity and reductions in distributions increases the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in further damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and incurrence of legal expenses. The Company currently provides its Investment Management services primarily to its programs. Its revenue depends on the number of its programs, on the price of the properties acquired or disposed of by these programs, and on the revenue generated by the properties under its management. The Company derives fees for Investment Management services based on a percentage of the price of the properties acquired or disposed of by its programs and for management services based on a percentage of the 21 Table of Contents rental amounts of the properties in its programs. The Company is responsible for the management of all of the properties owned by its programs, but as of December 31, 2008 it had subcontracted the property management of approximately 18.0% of its programs’ office, medical office and healthcare related facilities and retail properties (based on square footage) and 30.3% of its programs’ multi-family apartment units to third parties. For REITs, investment decisions are controlled by the Board of Directors of REITs that are independent of the Company. Investment decisions of these Boards affect the fees earned by the Company. As a result, if any of the Company’s programs are unsuccessful, both its Transaction Services and Investment Management services fees will be reduced, if any are paid at all. In addition, failures of the Company’s programs to provide competitive investment returns could significantly impair its ability to market future programs. The Company’s inability to spread risk among a large number of programs could cause it to be over-reliant on a limited number of programs for its revenues. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain current levels of transaction and management services for its programs’ properties. The Company may be unable to grow its programs, which would cause it to fail to satisfy its business strategy. A significant element of the Company business strategy is the growth in the number of its programs. The consummation of any future program will be subject to raising adequate capital for the investment, identifying appropriate assets for acquisition and effectively and efficiently closing the transactions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and invest in additional properties or will be able to raise adequate capital for new programs in the future. If the Company is unable to consummate new programs in the future, it will not be able to continue to grow the revenue it receives from either transaction or management services. The inability to access investors for the Company’s programs through broker-dealers or other intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s ability to source capital for its programs depends significantly on access to the client base of securities broker-dealers and other financial investment intermediaries that may offer competing investment products. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to continue to maintain these relationships as well as finding additional securities broker-dealers to facilitate offerings by its programs or to find investors for the Company’s REITs, TIC Programs and other investment programs. The Company cannot be sure that it will continue to gain access to these channels. In addition, competition for capital is intense and the Company may not be able to obtain the capital required to complete a program. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The termination of any of the Company’s broker-dealer relationships, especially given the limited number of key broker-dealers, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s securities programs are sold through third-party broker-dealers who are members of its selling group. While the Company has established relationships with its selling group, it is required to enter into a new agreement with each member of the selling group for each new program it offers. In addition, the Company’s programs may be removed from a selling broker-dealer’s approved program list at any time for any reason. The Company cannot assure you of the continued participation of existing members of its selling group nor can the Company make an assurance that its selling group will expand. While the Company continues to diversify and add new investment channels for its programs, a significant portion of the growth in recent years in the number of TIC Programs it sponsors and in its REITs has been as a result of capital raised by a relatively limited number of broker-dealers. Loss of any of these key broker-dealer relationships, or the failure to develop new relationships to cover the Company’s expanding business through new investment channels, could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Misconduct by third-party selling broker-dealers or the Company’s sales force, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company relies on selling broker-dealers and the Company’s sales force to properly offer its securities programs to customers in compliance with its selling agreements and with applicable regulatory requirements. 22 Table of Contents While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against the Company. A significant amount of the Company’s revenue has historically been derived from fees earned through the transaction structuring and property management of its TIC Programs, which programs rely primarily on Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code to provide for deferral of capital gains taxes to make these programs attractive. A change in this tax code section or a complete revocation of this section as it relates specifically to TICs could materially impact these programs. Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for the deferral of capital gains taxes which would ordinarily arise from the sale of real estate through a tax-deferred exchange of property, which defers the recognition of capital gains tax until such time as the replacement property is sold in a taxable transaction. These transactions are referred to as 1031 exchanges. In 2002, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, issued advance ruling guidelines outlining the requirements for properly structured TIC arrangements, which the Company believes validate the TIC structure generally and as it employs it. However, as recently as May 2006, the Senate Finance Committee proposed a bill in the negotiations over the budget reconciliation tax-cutting package to modify Section 1031 treatment for TICs as a way to raise additional tax revenue. The proposal was unsuccessful, but the Company cannot assure you that in the future there will not be attempts to limit or disallow the tax deferral benefits for TIC transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 1.4% of the Company’s total revenue was derived from TIC acquisition fees, although this amount is declining due to a significant contraction in the industry in 2008 (see Risk Factor above, “The TIC business in general, from which the Company has historically generated significant revenues, materially contracted in 2008”) If the Company were no longer able to structure TIC Programs as 1031 exchanges for its investors, it could lose a significant amount of revenue in the future, which might materially affect its results of operations. Moreover, any attempt to limit or disallow the tax deferral benefits of the 1031 exchange generally would have a material adverse effect on the real estate industry generally and on the Company’s business and results of operations. A significant amount of the Company’s programs are structured to provide favorable tax treatment to investors or REITs. If a program fails to satisfy the requirements necessary to permit this favorable tax treatment, the Company could be subject to claims by investors and its reputation for structuring these transactions would be negatively affected, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company structures TIC Programs and public non-traded REITs to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. For example, its TIC investors are able to defer the recognition of gain on sale of investment or business property if they enter into a 1031 exchange. Similarly, qualified REITs generally are not subject to federal income tax at corporate rates, which permits REITs to make larger distributions to investors (i.e. without reduction for federal income tax imposed at the corporate level). If the Company fails to properly structure a TIC transaction or if a REIT fails to satisfy the complex requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, the Company could be subject to claims by investors as a result of additional tax they may be required to pay or because they are unable to receive the distributions they expected at the time they made their investment. In addition, any failure to satisfy applicable tax regulations in structuring its programs would negatively affect the Company’s reputation, which would in turn affect its ability to earn additional fees from new programs. Claims by investors could lead to losses and any reduction in the Company’s fees would have a material adverse effect on its revenues. Any future co-investment activities the Company undertakes could subject it to real estate investment risks which could lead to the need for substantial capital contributions, which may impact its cash flows and financial condition and, if it is unable to make them, could damage its reputation and result in adverse consequences to its holdings. The Company may from time to time invest its capital in certain real estate investments with other real estate firms or with institutional investors such as pension plans. Any co-investment will generally require the Company to make initial capital contributions, and some co-investment entities may request additional capital from the Company and its subsidiaries holding investments in those assets. These contributions could 23 Table of Contents adversely impact the Company’s cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, the failure to provide these contributions could have adverse consequences to the Company’s interests in these investments. These adverse consequences could include damage to the Company’s reputation with its co-investment partners as well as dilution of ownership and the necessity of obtaining alternative funding from other sources that may be on disadvantageous terms, if available at all. Geographic concentration of program properties may expose the Company’s programs to regional economic downturns that could adversely impact their operations and, as a result, the fees the Company is able to generate from them, including fees on disposition of the properties as the Company may be limited in its ability to dispose of properties in a challenging real estate market. The Company’s programs generally focus on acquiring assets satisfying particular investment criteria, such as type or quality of tenants. There is generally no or little focus on the geographic location of a particular property. The Company cannot guarantee, however, that its programs will have, or will be able to maintain, a significant amount of geographic diversity. Although the Company’s property programs are located in 31 states, a majority of these properties (by square footage) are located in Texas, California, Florida and North Carolina. Geographic concentration of properties exposes the Company’s programs to economic downturns in the areas where the properties are located. A regional recession or other major, localized economic disruption in a region, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, in any of these areas could adversely affect the Company’s programs’ ability to generate or increase their operating revenues, attract new tenants or dispose of unproductive properties. Any reduction in program revenues would effectively reduce the fees the Company generates from them, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The failure of Triple Net Properties, LLC, recently renamed Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, LLC (“GERI”) and Triple Net Properties Realty, Inc. (“Realty”), subsidiaries of the Company acquired in the Merger, to hold certain required real estate licenses may subject Realty and the Company to penalties, such as fines, restitution payments and termination of management agreements, and to the suspension or revocation of certain broker licenses. Although Realty was required to have real estate licenses in states in which it acted as a broker for NNN’s investment programs and received real estate commissions prior to 2007, Realty did not hold a license in certain of those states when it earned fees for those services. In addition, almost all of GERI’s revenue was based on an arrangement with Realty to share fees from NNN’s programs. GERI did not hold a real estate license in any state, although most states in which properties of NNN’s programs were located may have required GERI to hold a license in order to share fees. As a result, Realty and the Company may be subject to penalties, such as fines (which could be a multiple of the amount received), restitution payments and termination of management agreements, and to the suspension or revocation of certain of Realty’s real estate broker licenses. If third-party managers providing property management services for the Company’s programs’ office, medical office and healthcare related facilities, retail and multi-family properties are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, the tenants may not renew their leases or the Company may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company has entered into agreements with third-party management companies to provide property management services for a significant number of the Company’s programs’ properties, and the Company expects to enter into similar third-party management agreements with respect to properties the Company’s programs acquire in the future. The Company does not supervise these third-party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and the Company cannot assure you that they will manage the Company’s programs’ properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under the Company’s agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to the Company. If any of the foregoing occurs, the relationships with the Company’s programs’ tenants could be damaged, which may cause the tenants not to renew their leases, and the Company could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to 24 Table of Contents the properties or to persons at the properties. If the Company is unable to lease the properties or the Company become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third-party management performance issues, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be substantially harmed. The Company or its new programs may be required to incur future indebtedness to raise sufficient funds to purchase properties. One of the Company’s business strategies is to develop new programs. The development of a new program requires the identification and subsequent acquisition of properties when the opportunity arises. In some instances, in order to effectively and efficiently complete a program, the Company may provide deposits for the acquisition of property or actually purchase the property and warehouse it temporarily for the program. If the Company does not have cash on hand available to pay these deposits or fund an acquisition, the Company or the Company’s programs may be required to incur additional indebtedness, which indebtedness may not be available on acceptable terms. If the Company incurs substantial debt, the Company could lose its interests in any properties that have been provided as collateral for any secured borrowing, or the Company could lose its assets if the debt is recourse to it. In addition, the Company’s cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay these obligations upon their maturity, making it necessary for the Company to raise additional capital or dispose of some of its assets. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to borrow additional debt on satisfactory terms, or at all. The Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement includes a restrictive covenant which prohibits the Company from incurring such indebtedness unless consistent with the Approved Budget without the consent of the requisite majority of lenders. The Company may be required to repay loans the Company guaranteed that were used to finance properties acquired by the Company’s programs. From time to time the Company has provided guarantees of loans for properties under management. As of December 31, 2008, there were 151 properties under management with loan guarantees of approximately $3.5 billion in total principal outstanding with terms ranging from 1 to 10 years, secured by properties with a total aggregate purchase price of approximately $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2008. The Company’s guarantees consisted of the following as of December 31, 2008. In addition, the consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) and unconsolidated VIEs are jointly and severally liable on the non-recourse mortgage debt related to the interests in the Company’s TIC investments totaling $277.8 million and $385.3 million as of December 31, 2008, respectively. (In thousands) December 31, 2008 Non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of debt of properties under management(1) $ 3,414,433 Non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of the Company’s debt(1) $ 107,000 Guarantees of the Company’s mezzanine debt $ — Recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management $ 42,426 Recourse guarantees of the Company’s debt $ 10,000 (1) A “non-recourse/carve-out” guaranty imposes personal liability on the guarantor in the event the borrower engages in certain acts prohibited by the loan documents. As property values and performance decline, the risk of exposure under these guarantees increases. Management evaluates these guarantees to determine if the guarantee meets the criteria required to record a liability in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Financial Interpretation No. 45, Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (“FIN No. 45”). As of December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a liability of $9.1 million related to recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management which matured in January and April 2009. Any other such liabilities were insignificant as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Third Amendment to the Credit Facility includes a restrictive covenant which prohibits the Company from providing any additional guarantees unless consistent with the Approved Budget without the consent of the requisite majority of lenders. 25 Table of Contents The revenue streams from the Company’s management services may be subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which the Company provides advisory and management services to public non-traded REITs may generally be terminated by each REIT following a notice period, with or without cause. The Company cannot assure you that these agreements will not be terminated and the board of directors and management of Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT has informed the Company that it does not intend to renew its Advisory Agreement with the Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT Advisor, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, upon the termination of the Advisory Agreement on September 20, 2009. In addition, if the Company has a significant amount of TIC Programs selling their properties or public non-traded REITs liquidating in the same period, the Company’s revenues would decrease unless it is able to find replacement programs to generate new fees. The Company is currently in the process of liquidating two of its public non-traded REITs and, as a result, the Company’s management fees from these REITs have been reduced due to the number of properties that have been sold. Any decrease in the Company’s fees, as a result of termination of a contract or customary close out or liquidation of a program, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Future pressures to lower, waive or credit back the Company’s fees could reduce the Company’s revenue and profitability. The Company has on occasion waived or credited its fees for real estate acquisitions and financings for the Company’s TIC Programs to improve projected investment returns and attract TIC investors. There has also been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the third-party asset management business, and fees paid for the management of properties in the Company’s TIC Programs or public non-traded REITs could follow these trends. In order for the Company to maintain its fee structure in a competitive environment, the Company must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its current fee structures. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. Regulatory uncertainties related to the Company’s broker-dealer services could harm the Company’s business. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. The SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on an internal system to ensure compliance, as well as the ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. The Company could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance with these securities regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. The Company depends upon its programs’ tenants to pay rent, and their inability to pay rent may substantially reduce certain fees the Company receives which are based on gross rental amounts. The Company’s programs are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real estate. For example, the income the Company is able to generate from management fees is derived from the gross rental income on the properties in its programs. The rental income depends upon the ability of the tenants of the Company’s programs’ properties to generate enough income to make their lease payments to the Company. Changes beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to make lease payments or could require them to terminate their leases. Either an inability to make lease payments or a termination of one or more leases could reduce the management fees the Company receives. These changes include, among others, the following: • downturns in national or regional economic conditions where the Company’s programs’ properties are located, which generally will negatively impact the demand and rental rates; 26 Table of Contents • changes in local market conditions such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease or new construction, or a reduction in demand for properties in the Company’s programs, making it more difficult for the Company’s programs to lease space at attractive rental rates or at all; • competition from other available properties, which could cause the Company’s programs to lose current or prospective tenants or cause them to reduce rental rates; and • changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. Due to these changes, among others, tenants and lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments. Defaults by tenants or the failure of any lease guarantors to fulfill their obligations, or other early termination of a lease could, depending upon the size of the leased premises and the Company’s ability as property manager to successfully find a substitute tenant, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Conflicts of interest inherent in transactions between the Company’s programs and the Company, and among its programs, could create liability for the Company that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. These conflicts include but are not limited to the following: • the Company experiences conflicts of interests with certain of its directors, officers and affiliates from time to time with regard to any of its investments, transactions and agreements in which it holds a direct or indirect pecuniary interest; • since the Company receives both management fees and acquisition and disposition fees for its programs’ properties, the Company could be in conflict with its programs over whether their properties should be sold or held by the program and the Company may make decisions or take actions based on factors other than in the best interest of investors of a particular sponsored investor program; • a component of the compensation of certain of the Company’s executives is based on the performance of particular programs, which could cause the executives to favor those programs over others; • the Company may face conflicts of interests as to how it allocates property acquisition opportunities or prospective tenants among competing programs; • the Company may face conflicts of interests if programs sell properties to each other or invest in each other; and • the Company’s executive officers will devote only as much of their time to a program as they determine is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than full time; during times of intense activity in other programs, these officers may devote less time and fewer resources to a program than are necessary or appropriate to manage the program’s business. The Company cannot assure you that one or more of these conflicts will not result in claims by investors in its programs, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The offerings conducted to raise capital for the Company’s TIC Programs are done in reliance on exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. A failure to satisfy the requirements for the appropriate exemption could void the offering or, if it is already completed, provide the investors with rescission rights, either of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and as a result its business and results of operations. The securities of the Company’s TIC Programs are offered and sold in reliance upon a private placement offering exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. If the Company or its dealer-manager failed to comply with the requirements of the relevant exemption and an offering were in process, the Company may have to terminate the offering. If an offering was completed, the 27 Table of Contents investors may have the right, if they so desired, to rescind their purchase of the securities. A rescission offer could also be required under applicable state securities laws and regulations in states where any securities were offered without registration or qualification pursuant to a private offering or other exemption. If a number of holders sought rescission at one time, the applicable program would be required to make significant payments which could adversely affect its business and as a result, the fees generated by the Company from such program. If one of the Company’s programs was forced to terminate an offering before it was completed or to make a rescission offer, the Company’s reputation would also likely be significantly harmed. Any reduction in fees as a result of a rescission offer or a loss of reputation would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The inability to identify suitable refinance options may negatively impact investment program performance and cause harm to the Company’s reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and third-party broker-dealer selling agreements, limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and potentially expose the Company to legal liability. The availability of real estate financing has greatly diminished over the past year as a result of the global credit crisis and overall decline in the real estate market. As a result, the Company may not be able to refinance some or all of the loans maturing in its investment management portfolio. Failure to obtain suitable refinance options may have a negative impact on investment returns and may potentially cause investments to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Any such negative impact on distributions, foreclosure or loss of equity in an investment program could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the Company’s ability to attract investors for future investment programs. In addition, it could cause the Company to lose asset and property management contracts, cause the Company to lose third-party broker-dealer selling agreements for existing investment programs, including its REITs, and limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer agreements. Significant losses in investor equity and reductions in distributions increases the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and incurrence of legal expenses. An increase in interest rates may negatively affect the equity value of the Company’s programs or cause the Company to lose potential investors to alternative investments, causing the fees the Company receives for transaction and management services to be reduced. Although in the last two years, interest rates in the United States have generally decreased, if interest rates were to rise, the Company’s financing costs would likely rise and the Company’s net yield to investors may decline. This downward pressure on net yields to investors in the Company’s programs could compare poorly to rising yields on alternative investments. Additionally, as interest rates rise, valuations of commercial real estate properties typically decline. A decrease in both the attractiveness of the Company’s programs and the value of assets held by these programs could cause a decrease in both transaction and management services revenues, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede the Company’s ability to make future acquisitions which would reduce the fees the Company generates from these programs and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, national and regional level. The Company’s programs face competition from REITs, institutional pension plans, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors for the acquisition of properties and for raising capital to create programs to make these acquisitions. Competition may prevent the Company’s programs from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price they must pay for real estate. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If the Company’s programs pay higher prices for properties, investors may experience a lower return on investment and be less inclined to invest in the Company’s next program which may decrease the Company’s profitability. Increased competition for properties may also preclude the Company’s programs from acquiring properties that would generate the most 28 Table of Contents attractive returns to investors or may reduce the number of properties the Company’s programs could acquire, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the Company’s programs’ properties and harm the Company’s financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to promptly facilitate a sale of one or more properties or investments in the Company’s programs in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in the market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in regional, national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Fees from the disposition of properties would be materially affected if the Company were unable to facilitate a significant number of property dispositions for the Company’s programs. Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. Should a property sustain damage or an occupant sustain an injury, the Company may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, co-payments on insured losses or uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss or personal injury, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full damages. In the event of an uninsured loss, the Company could lose some or all of its capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds the Company receives, if any, might not be adequate to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to the property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties in the Company’s programs, the remaining insurance under the applicable policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure the remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than the current policy. A loss at any of these properties or an increase in premium as a result of a loss could decrease the income from or value of properties under management in the Company’s programs, which in turn would reduce the fees the Company receives from these programs. Any decrease or loss in fees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company carries commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to the Company’s programs’ properties. The Company obtains coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that the Company believes are customarily carried for similar properties. The Company cannot assure you, however, that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be insurable on an economic basis or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available. In addition, the Company generally does not obtain insurance against certain risks, such as floods. Risks Related to the Company in General Delaware law and provisions of the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments on the ability or desire of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to its existing stockholders, and the Company will be subject to these Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Additionally, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its restated bylaws contain provisions that might enable its management to resist a proposed takeover of the Company. The provisions include: • a staggered or classified board of directors; • the authority of the Company’s board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Company’s board may determine; • the authority of the Company’s board to adopt, amend or repeal the Company’s bylaws; and 29 Table of Contents • a prohibition on holders of less than a majority of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock calling a special meeting of the Company’s stockholders. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or an acquisition of the Company at a price that its stockholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for the Company’s stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. As a consequence the amendments to the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation adopted in connection with the Merger, the Company has a staggered board, which may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be deemed to be in the best interests of stockholders. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that its board of directors be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since the Company’s staggered board would prevent its stockholders from replacing a majority of its board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be deemed to be in the best interests of stockholders. The Company has the ability to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of its common stock. The Company does not currently have any issued and outstanding preferred stock. However, the board of directors has the right to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of holders of common stock and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of the Company. There are ten million shares of preferred stock authorized. Subject to the requisite lender approval under the Credit Facility, the Company’s board of directors is authorized, without any further stockholder approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock. The Company is authorized to fix and state the voting rights, powers, designations, preferences and relative participation or other special rights of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon. Preferred stock typically ranks prior to the common stock with respect to dividend rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full, limited, or expanded voting rights. Accordingly, issuances of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock and could negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company has registration rights outstanding, which could have a negative impact on its share price if exercised. Pursuant to the Company’s registration rights agreement with Kojaian Ventures, L.L.C. and Kojaian Holdings, LLC, and the registration rights of the holders of Warrants issued to the lenders under the Company’s Credit Facility, the holders of such rights could, in the future, cause the Company to file additional registration statements with respect to its shares of common stock, which could have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Future sales of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect its stock price The Company issued the Warrants to its lenders in connection with the execution of the Third Amendment to its Credit Facility. The Warrants are exercisable for nominal consideration to purchase that number of shares of common stock of the Company which equal 15% of the fully diluted common stock of the Company as of October 1, 2009, subject to adjustment and are entitled to certain registration rights. The Warrants are not exercisable until such date (and remain exercisable until September 30, 2019), and in the event the Company effects the Recapitalization Plan and the Partial Prepayment on or before September 30, 2009, the warrants shall automatically terminate and become null and void. The issuance of shares of common stock of the Company upon exercise of the Warrants could materially adversely impact the market price of the Company’s common stock. 30 Table of Contents In addition, there are an aggregate of 1,077,175 Company shares subject to issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options. Accordingly, these shares will be available for sale in the open market, subject to vesting restrictions, and, in the case of affiliates, certain volume limitations. The sale of shares either pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options or as after the satisfaction of vesting restriction of certain restricted stock could also cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 