ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and the other public statements we make. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: • projections of revenues, costs, earnings per share, capital expenditures, dividends or other financial measures; • descriptions of anticipated plans or objectives of our management for operations or products; • forecasts of performance; and • assumptions regarding any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements involve matters which are not historical facts. Because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” or similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They represent our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made and they might not be updated to reflect changes as they occur after the forward-looking statements are made. For example, forward-looking statements include expectations regarding: • sales or comparable store sales; • gross profit; • SG&A expenses; • capital expenditures; and • developments in accounting standards. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchase of discretionary items, which could reduce our net sales. A large portion of our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Many factors affect discretionary spending, including world events, war, conditions in financial markets, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the housing markets, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our net sales and profitability could decline. We face significant competition from national, regional and local retailers of home furnishings. The retail market for home furnishings is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national department stores, regional or independent specialty stores, and dedicated franchises of furniture manufacturers. National mass merchants such as Macy’s, JCPenney and COSTCO also have limited product offerings. We also compete with retailers that market products through store catalogs and the Internet. In addition, there are few barriers to entry into our current and contemplated markets, and new competitors may enter our current or future markets at any time. 9 We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower costs and better sustain economic downturns. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to promotion and sale of products. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: • aggressive advertising, pricing and marketing; • extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we offer; • larger store size, which may result in greater operational efficiencies, or innovative store formats; • adoption of improved retail sales methods; and • expansion by our existing competitors or entry by new competitors into markets where we currently operate. Competition from any of these sources could cause us to lose market share, revenues and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. Our ability to maintain and increase revenues depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products. We believe that the introduction and consumer acceptance of our proprietary Havertys brand will have a significant impact on our ability to increase revenues. These products are subject to fashion changes and pricing limitations which could affect the success of these and other new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our sales may decline. Our products must appeal to our target consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to fashion trends relating to home furnishings. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products may decline. In addition, we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors in advance of proposed delivery dates. Significant deviation from the projected demand for products that we sell may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to reduce prices to dispose of excess inventory. We import a substantial portion of our merchandise from foreign sources. Changes in exchange rates or tariffs could impact the price we pay for these goods, resulting in potentially higher retail prices and/or lower gross profit on these goods. During 2007, approximately 64% of our furniture purchases, on a dollar basis were for goods not produced domestically. All of these purchases were denominated in U.S. dollars. As exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies become unfavorable, the likelihood of price increases from our vendors increases. Some of the products we purchase are also subject to tariffs. If tariffs are imposed on additional products or the tariff rates are increased our vendors may increase their prices. Such price increases, if they occur, could have one or more of the following impacts: • we could be forced to raise retail prices so high that we are unable to sell the products at current unit volumes; • if we are unable to raise retail prices commensurately with the costs increases, gross profit as recognized under our LIFO inventory accounting method could be negatively impacted; or • we may be forced to find alternative sources of comparable product, which may be more expensive than the current product, of lower quality, or the vendor may be unable to meet our requirements for quality, quantities, delivery schedules or other key terms. 10 As a result of our reliance on foreign sourcing our ability to service customers could be adversely affected and result in lower sales and earnings. Our overseas vendors may not supply goods that meet our quality or safety specifications in a timely manner. We may reject goods that do not meet our specifications and find alternative sourcing arrangements at a higher cost or may be forced to discontinue the product. Our revenue could be adversely affected by a disruption in our supply chain. Disruptions to our supply chain could result in late arrivals of product. This could negatively affect sales due to increased levels of out-of-stock merchandise and loss of confidence by customers in our ability to deliver goods as promised. The rise of oil and gasoline prices could affect our profitability. A significant increase in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect our profitability. Our distribution system, which utilizes three distribution centers and multiple home delivery centers to reach our markets across 17 Southern and Midwestern states, is very transportation dependent. Additionally, we deliver substantially all of our customers’ purchases to their homes. If the transportation costs exceed those amounts that we are able to effectively pass on to the consumer, either by higher prices and/or higher delivery charges, then our profitability will suffer. Our information technology infrastructure is vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our ability to operate our business from day to day, in particular our ability to manage our point-of-sale, credit operations and distribution system, largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to communicate customer information, real-time inventory information, manage our credit portfolio and to handle all facets of our distribution system from receiving of goods in the DCs to delivery to our customers’ homes. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • power loss, computer systems failures and Internet, telecommunications or data network failures. • operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; • physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; • computer viruses; • intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and • tornadoes, fires, floods and other natural disasters. Any failure due to any of these causes, if it is not supported by our disaster recovery plan and redundant systems, could cause an interruption in our operations and result in reduced net sales and profitability. Because of our limited number of distribution centers, should one become damaged, our operating results could suffer. We utilize three large distribution centers to flow our merchandise from the vendor to the consumer. This system is very efficient for reducing inventory requirements, but makes us operationally vulnerable should one of these facilities become damaged. Use of Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes include estimates and assumptions made by Management that affect reported amounts. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 