Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our current cash on-hand and cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to fund our future operating costs and liabilities or our growth strategy. There can be no assurances that our current cash on-hand and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements. As December 31, 2010, our consolidated cash and cash equivalents balance was $30.9 million. Given the seasonality of our business, we anticipate net negative cash flow over the course of at least the first two quarters of the year. We have historically relied upon access to the credit markets from time to time as a source of liquidity for the portion of our working capital requirements not provided by cash from operations. A failure to close our Senior Secured Credit Facility with Colony Capital would have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. On March 30, 2011 we entered into a commitment letter with respect to the $18.0 million Senior Secured Credit Facility. The entering into of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, and all closings thereunder, are subject to customary terms and provisions, including delivery of opinions, good standing certificates, and customary representations, warranties and covenants. In the event that we are not successful in meeting such conditions and are unable to obtain the full $18.0 million of funding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, or an alternative funding facility, it could create substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2011. We may not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our intercompany payable to NNN Realty Advisors, Inc., should such obligation become due and payable. Since our merger with NNNRA in December of 2007, we, on the one hand, and NNN Realty Advisors, Inc. (“NNNRA”) and its subsidiaries, on the other hand, have engaged in on-going intercompany transactions and services in the normal course of business. It has been our long-standing practice to calculate and report these intercompany balances on a net basis. As of December 31, 2010, based upon unaudited numbers, the cumulative net result of these transactions and services was an intercompany balance payable from us to NNNRA in the amount of approximately $13.9 million. Furthermore, NNNRA and its subsidiaries held approximately $8.1 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2010, of our total cash and cash equivalents of approximately $30.9 million. The intercompany balance will fluctuate over time as a result of ongoing intercompany transactions. Similarly, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held by NNNRA and its subsidiaries may increase or decrease over time based on such entities’ results of operations. In the event of any adversity between us and NNNRA, there can be no assurance that NNNRA will not make an immediate demand for payment of the intercompany payable or that we will have access to the cash and cash equivalents held by NNNRA. Moreover, the ability to net debits and credits between us, NNNRA and our subsidiaries in the event of a bankruptcy filing by all or any one of these entities may be limited by 11 U.S.C. § 553 and the case law interpreting 11 U.S.C. § 553. We and our Daymark affiliate are involved in litigation relating to its tenant-in-common portfolio that may have a material adverse effect. We and our Daymark affiliate have been named as defendants in multiple lawsuits relating to certain of our investment management offerings, in particular Daymark’s TIC programs. These lawsuits allege a variety of claims in connection with these offerings, including mismanagement, breach of contract, negligence, fraud, 9 Table of Contents breach of fiduciary duty and violations of state and federal securities laws, among other claims. Plaintiffs in these suits seek a variety of remedies, including rescission, actual and punitive damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees and costs. In many instances, the damages being sought are unspecified and to be determined at trial. It is difficult to predict the ultimate disposition of these lawsuits and our ultimate liability with respect to such claims and lawsuits. It is also difficult to predict the cost of defending these matters and to what extent claims will be covered by our existing insurance policies. In the event of an unfavorable outcome, the amounts we may be required to pay in the discharge of liabilities or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Additional information on our legal proceedings can be found in Item 3. We may be required to satisfy guaranty and indemnity obligations in connection with loans that were used to finance properties acquired by our investment programs now managed by Daymark. Historically our investment management subsidiaries provided non-recourse carve-out guarantees or indemnities relating to loans for properties now under the management of Daymark. As of December 31, 2010, there were 133 properties under management with non-recourse carve-out loan guarantees or indemnities of approximately $3.1 billion in total principal outstanding with terms ranging from 1 to 10 years, secured by properties with a total aggregate purchase price of approximately $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2010. A “non-recourse carve-out” guarantee or indemnity potentially imposes liability on the guarantor or indemnitor in the event the borrower engages in certain acts prohibited by the loan documents. Each non-recourse/carve-out guarantee or indemnity is an individual document entered into with the mortgage lender in connection with the purchase or refinance of an individual property. While there is not a standard document evidencing these guarantees and indemnities, liability under the non-recourse/carve-out guarantees or indemnities generally may be triggered by, among other things, any or all of the following: • a voluntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceeding of any borrower; • a “transfer” of the property or any interest therein in violation of the loan documents; • a violation by any borrower of the special purpose entity requirements set forth in the loan documents; • any fraud or material misrepresentation by any borrower or any guarantor in connection with the loan; • the gross negligence or willful misconduct by any borrower in connection with the property, the loan or any obligation under the loan documents; • the misapplication, misappropriation or conversion of (i) any rents, security deposits, proceeds or other funds, (ii) any insurance proceeds paid by reason of any loss, damage or destruction to the property, and (iii) any awards or other amounts received in connection with the condemnation of all or a portion of the property; • any waste of the property caused by acts or omissions of borrower of the removal or disposal of any portion of the property after an event of default under the loan documents; and • the breach of any obligations set forth in an environmental or hazardous substances indemnity agreement from borrower. Certain acts (typically the first three listed above) may render the entire debt balance recourse to the guarantor or indemnitor, while the liability for other acts is typically limited to the damages incurred by the lender. Notice and cure provisions vary between guarantees and indemnities. Generally the guarantor or indemnitor irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees or indemnifies the lender the payment and performance of the guaranteed or indemnified obligations as and when the same shall be due and payable, whether by lapse of time, by acceleration or maturity or otherwise, and the guarantor or indemnitor covenants and agrees that it is liable for the guaranteed or indemnified obligations as a primary obligor. In addition, the consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) and unconsolidated VIEs are jointly and severally liable on the non-recourse mortgage debt related to the interests in our TIC investments totaling 10 Table of Contents $405.3 million and $277.0 million for the consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $0 and $93.3 million for the unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If property values and performance decline, the risk of exposure under these guarantees increases. Management initially evaluates these guarantees to determine if the guarantee meets the criteria required to record a liability in accordance with the requirements of ASC Topic 460, Guarantees, (“Guarantees Topic”). As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had recourse guarantees of $24.9 million and $33.9 million, respectively, relating to debt of properties under management (of which $12.0 million and $12.0 million, respectively, is recourse back to Grubb & Ellis Company, the remainder of which is recourse to our Daymark subsidiary). As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $9.5 million and $9.8 million, respectively, of these recourse guarantees relate to debt that has matured, is in default, or is not currently in compliance with certain loan covenants (of which $2.0 million and $0, respectively, is recourse back to Grubb & Ellis Company, the remainder of which is recourse to our Daymark subsidiary). In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had $8.0 million of recourse guarantees related to debt that will mature in the next twelve months (of which the entire amount is recourse back to Grubb & Ellis Company). Our evaluation of the potential liability arising from guarantees may prove to be inaccurate and liabilities may exceed estimates. In the event that actual losses materially exceed estimates, individual investment management subsidiaries may not be able to pay such obligations as they become due. Failure of any of our subsidiaries to pay such debts as they become due would likely have a materially negative impact on our ongoing business, and the investment management operations in particular. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded a liability of $0.8 million and $3.8 million, respectively, which is included in other current liabilities, related to our estimate of probable loss related to recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management and previously under management. Failure by our subsidiaries to pay liabilities arising under the non-recourse carve-out guarantees and indemnities when due, or the insolvency of Daymark or certain of its subsidiaries, including NNNRA, may trigger a cross default under our Convertible Notes. In the event we or our Daymark subsidiaries incur liabilities under the non-recourse carve-out guarantees and indemnities in excess of $1,000,000 which are not satisfied when due, or Daymark or certain of its subsidiaries go into bankruptcy, it may result in a cross default under our Convertible Notes. Upon a cross default the entire $31.5 million principal amount of Convertible Notes could become due and payable, which would have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain the requisite consents from our holders of Convertible Notes to amend the Convertible Note indenture to eliminate certain events of default, certain of which could occur as a consequence of recent events. Our Convertible Notes contain various events of default, including, among others, that in the event we or any of our subsidiaries fail to pay any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $1,000,000 (other than non-recourse mortgage debt) when due, or go into bankruptcy, it could result in a cross default under our Convertible Notes. We are currently seeking the consent of holders of Convertible Notes holding in excess of 50% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to amend the indenture with respect to the Convertible Notes so as to eliminate these potential cross defaults with respect to our Daymark subsidiary and all of Daymark’s direct and indirect subsidiaries. Currently, in connection with bankruptcy filings effected by two unaffiliated, individual investor entities which are minority owners in two TIC programs located in Texas, Met Center 10 and 2400 West Marshall, that were originally sponsored by a subsidiary of Daymark, such subsidiary may become liable for amounts in excess of $1,000,000 with respect to either or both of these properties. In the event such were to occur, and we do not obtain the requisite consents and were unable to pay these amounts, it could result in a cross default of the Convertible Notes and accelerate the entire $30 million principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. 11 Table of Contents The insolvency of Daymark or one or more of its subsidiaries, including NNNRA and GERI, could subject us to variety of legal claims, cause reputational damage, result in a loss of business and employees and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The current market value of many of the properties managed by Daymark and its affiliates have decreased as a result of the overall decline in the economy and commercial real estate markets and resulted in reductions in distributions in numerous investment programs, in many instances to a zero percent distribution rate. In addition, there have been a number of lawsuits initiated regarding the Daymark portfolio and its operations and, as noted above, Daymark and its subsidiaries may be liable with respect to certain loan guarantees, including partial recourse and non-recourse carve-out guarantees and indemnities. A materially adverse outcome with respect to these various factors, either individually or in their totality, may result in Daymark or one or more of its subsidiaries seeking protection from creditors through an insolvency proceeding. In such event, all or part of Daymark’s assets and operations would come under the supervision of the bankruptcy court. Because a bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding involves an adjustment of the assets and liabilities of the bankrupt entity, a bankruptcy proceeding may result in adverse claims being brought against us and involve an adjustment of intercompany claims, including with respect to the intercompany payable from us to NNNRA, the result of which may result in material liabilities to us and our related parties and affiliates. In addition, a bankruptcy of Daymark or one or more of its affiliates may cause us reputational damage and may, among other things, negatively affect our ongoing investment management programs, including our sponsored non-traded REIT, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are obligated to pay quarterly dividends with respect to our Preferred Stock; we failed to make our last preferred dividend payment. We are obligated to pay quarterly dividends with respect to the 12% Preferred Stock and in the event such dividends are in arrears for six or more quarters, whether or not consecutive, subject to certain limitations, holders representing a majority of shares of Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of all other classes or series of preferred stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to nominate and vote for the election of two additional directors to serve on our Board of Directors (the “Preferred Stock Directors”), until all unpaid dividends with respect to the Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for payment is set aside for such payment; provided that the election of any such Preferred Stock Directors will not cause us to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) (or any other exchange or automated quotation system on which our securities may be listed or quoted) that requires listed or quoted companies to have a majority of independent directors; and provided further that the Board of Directors will, at no time, include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. We failed to pay our last dividend which was due on March 31, 2011. The ongoing weakness in the general economy and the real estate market has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business and financial results. Periods of economic slowdown or recession can significantly reduce access to credit, lower employment levels, decreased demand for real estate, decreased real estate values or the perception that any of these events may occur, can reduce transaction volumes or demand for services for each of our business lines. The current condition of the national economy and the downturn in real estate markets have resulted in and may continue to result in: • a decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity; • a decline in the supply of capital invested in commercial real estate; • a decline in fees collected from investment management programs, which are dependent upon demand for investment in commercial real estate; and 12 Table of Contents • a decline in the value of real estate and in rental rates, which would cause us to realize lower revenue from: • property management fees, which in certain cases are calculated as a percentage of the revenue of the property under management; and • commissions or fees derived from property valuation, sales and leasing, which are typically based on the value, sale price or lease revenue commitment, respectively. The weakened real estate market in the United States, the limited availability of credit, high levels of unemployment, and the current general business and economic environment have impacted real estate services and investment management firms like ours through reduced transaction volumes, falling transaction values, lower real estate valuations, liquidity restrictions, market volatility, and the loss of confidence. We are not able to predict with certainty these economic and real estate market factors. The real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the overall economy and to the perceptions of investors, developers and other market participants as to the economic outlook. A continued downturn in the real estate market or weakening of the national economy could negatively impact our business and results of operation. We may not be able to comply with the NYSE’s continued listing requirements, which failure would cause our common stock to be delisted from trading on the NYSE, trigger a “fundamental change” and repurchase obligation under our Convertible Notes, and could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock. The NYSE’s continued listing standards require that we maintain an average market capitalization and shareowners’ equity of not less than $50.0 million and that our common stock, among other things, not have an average closing price of at least $1.00 over a consecutive thirty trading day period. As of December 31, 2010, we had a market capitalization and shareowner’s deficit of $89.1 million and $68.1 million, respectively, and a stock price of $1.27 per share. As of March 30, 2011, we had a stock price of $0.75 per share and a thirty day average of $1.04 per share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the minimum levels of market capitalization and shareowner’s equity and stock price as required by the NYSE. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard, our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE. As a result, we likely would have our common stock listed on another national exchange or quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC BB”) in order to have our common stock continue to be traded on a public market. Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on the NYSE. Delisting from the NYSE and failure to register on another national exchange would trigger a “fundamental change” under the indenture for our Convertible Notes and allow the holders of the Convertible Notes to trigger a repurchase obligation by us of the Convertible Notes. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Convertible Notes should such a fundamental change occur. Delisting from the NYSE may also preclude us from using certain state securities law exemptions, which could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital in the future and more difficult for us to provide compensation packages sufficient to attract and retain top talent. In addition, because issuers whose securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate governance and other standards imposed by the NYSE, and such issuers receive less news and analyst coverage, our reputation may suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our shares. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, therefore, could significantly disrupt the ability of investors to trade our common stock and could have a material adverse effect on us and the value and liquidity of our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, some of which may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. We compete in a variety of service disciplines within the commercial real estate industry. Each of these business areas is highly competitive on a national as well as on a regional and local level. We face competition not only from other national real estate service providers, but also from global real estate service providers, boutique real estate advisory firms, consulting and appraisal firms. Depending on the product or service, we also faces competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance 13 Table of Contents companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. We are also subject to competition from other large national firms and from multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to it. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than it, some of our competitors are substantially larger than us on a local, regional, national or international basis. In general, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with respect to any of our business lines or on an overall basis, or to maintain current fee levels or margins, or maintain or increase our market share. As a service-oriented company, we depend upon the retention of senior management and key personnel, and the loss of our current personnel or our failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm our business. Our current stock price, as well as limited number of stock available under our Omnibus Equity Plan, could materially impair our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain our executive officers and other key employees and to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We believe that our future success in developing our business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We use equity incentives to attract and retain our key personnel. Our decreased stock price results in the decline in value of previously provided equity awards, which may result in an increase risk of loss of key personnel. The performance of our stock may also diminish our ability to offer attractive incentive awards to new hires. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, only 299,724 shares of common stock remained eligible for future grant under the Omnibus Equity Plan. The limited shares available for future grant under our Omnibus Equity Plan may limit our ability to retain key personnel and attract new hires. Our failure to recruit and retain necessary executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new customers. Failure to manage any future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Management will need to successfully manage the integration of recent acquisitions any future growth effectively. The integration and additional growth may place a significant strain upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition, there can be no assurance that such acquisitions will be accretive or generate operating margins. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional executive officers and new employees, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to the new geographic locations and our business lines. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we integrate and continues to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the integration of recent acquisitions and future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Transaction Services and Management Services Businesses Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate due to the seasonal nature of our business and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of our securities to decline. Historically, the majority of our revenue has been derived from the transaction services that it provides. Such services are typically subject to seasonal fluctuations. We typically experience our lowest quarterly revenue in the quarter ending March 31 of each year with higher and more consistent revenue in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30. The quarter ending December 31 has historically provided the highest quarterly level of revenue due to increased activity caused by the desire of clients to complete transactions by 14 Table of Contents calendar year-end. However, our non-variable operating expenses, which are treated as expenses when incurred during the year, are relatively constant in total dollars on a quarterly basis. As a result, since a high proportion of these operating expenses are fixed, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. In addition, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of our securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. If the properties that we manage fail to perform, then our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success partially depends upon the performance of the properties it manages. We could be adversely affected by the nonperformance of, or the deteriorating financial condition of, certain of our clients. The revenue we generate from our property management business is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of our control: • our ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; • the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; • our ability to control operating expenses; • governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; • various uninsurable risks; • financial condition of certain clients; • financial conditions prevailing generally and in the areas in which these properties are located; • the nature and extent of competitive properties; and • the general real estate market. These or other factors may negatively impact the properties that we manage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to real estate brokerage, appraisal and mortgage transactions and other business lines, then we may incur significant financial penalties. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations and the real estate services performed, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations specific to the services performed. For example, the brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions requires us to maintain brokerage licenses in each state in which we operates. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license or violate any of the regulations applicable to our licenses, then we may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to our business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. The failure to comply with both foreign and domestic regulations could result in significant financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to replace affiliate offices when affiliation agreements are terminated which may decrease our scope of services and geographic reach. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 109 owned and affiliate offices throughout North America, of which 56 were owned and 53 were affiliates. From time to time our affiliate arrangements may be terminated pursuant to the terms of the individual affiliation agreements. In 2010, our affiliate arrangements were terminated in a number of markets and in some cases we replaced such affiliate offices with owned offices in lieu of entering into replacement affiliation arrangements. The opening of an owned office to replace an affiliate office requires us to invest capital, which in some cases may be material. In the event our affiliation relationships are terminated, we will lose our market coverage in such market if we do not enter into a replacement affiliation arrangement or open an owned office. There can be no assurance that if we lose additional affiliates we will be able to identify suitable replacement affiliates or fund the establishment of an owned office. Failure to maintain coverage in important geographic markets may negatively impact our operations, reputation, and affect or ability to attract and retain key employees and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property and facilities management activities. As a licensed real estate broker, we and our licensed employees and independent contractors that work for us are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that we or they brokered or managed. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that we did not fulfill our statutory obligations as a broker. In addition, in our property and facilities management businesses, we hire and supervises third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our managed properties. While our role is limited to that of a supervisor, we may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations may adversely impact our business and/or cause us to incur costs for cleanup of hazardous substances or wastes or other environmental liabilities. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various environmental zoning restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our real estate brokerage business. In addition, a failure by us to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of property. In addition, in our role as a property manager, we could incur liability under environmental laws for the investigation or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at properties we currently or formerly managed, or at off-site locations where wastes from such properties were disposed. Such liability can be imposed without regard for the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or our knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination. Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site. We could also be held liable for property damage or personal injury claims alleged to result from environmental contamination, or from asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint present at the properties we manage. Insurance for such matters may not be available or sufficient. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in certain buildings, could increase our costs of legal compliance and potentially subject us to violations or 16 Table of Contents claims. Although such costs have not had a material impact on our financial results or competitive position during fiscal year 2008, 2009 or 2010, the enactment of additional regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs in the future, and/or adversely impact our brokerage and management services businesses. We may expand our business to include international operations so that we may be more competitive, but in doing so we could subject ourselves to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. Although we do not currently conduct significant business outside the United States, we are considering an expansion of our international operations so that we may be more competitive. Currently, our lack of international capabilities sometimes places us at a competitive disadvantage when prospective clients are seeing one real estate services provider that can service their needs both in the United States and overseas. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully expand our business in international markets. Current global economic conditions may restrict, limit or delay our ability to expand our business into international markets or make such expansion less economically feasible. If we expand into international markets, circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • lack of substantial experience operating in international markets; • lack of recognition of the Grubb & Ellis brand name in international markets; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • diverse foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; • political instability; and • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in certain countries. Additionally, we may establish joint ventures with foreign entities for the provision of brokerage services abroad, which may involve the purchase or sale of our equity securities or the equity securities of the joint venture participant(s). In these joint ventures, we may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint venture and other participants may take action contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, then it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to our Investment Management Businesses The performance of our Daymark operations could adversely affect our non-traded REIT business, as it could cause harm to our reputation, cause the loss of third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and limit our ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer selling agreements. In the event that Daymark is unable to overcome its current business challenges and successfully defend itself from the potential liabilities that it currently faces, such events could cause us to lose third-party broker-dealer selling agreements for investment programs, including our non-traded REIT, and limit our ability to 17 Table of Contents sign future third-party broker-dealer agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue streams generated from our sponsored non-traded REIT are subject to limitation or cancellation. Our ability to earn fees in connection with our sponsored non-traded REIT will depend on our ability to raise equity capital for the REIT and to provide asset acquisition and management services, including identifying appropriate assets for acquisition and effectively and efficiently closing transactions. If we are unable to identify suitable investment properties, or if property valuations or performance declines, our fees may be reduced, including our disposition and management fees. For our REIT, investment decisions are controlled by the Board of Directors of the REIT that is independent of us and investment decisions of the Board affect the fees we earn. In addition, failures of our programs to provide competitive investment returns could significantly impair our ability to market future programs. Our inability to spread risk among a large number of programs could cause us to be over-reliant on a limited number of programs for our revenues. In addition, the agreements under which we raise equity capital for the REIT and provide advisory and management services may generally be terminated by the REIT’s independent Board of Directors following a notice period, with or without cause. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be terminated. The termination of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The inability to access investors for our non-traded REIT through broker-dealers or other intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to source equity for our REIT depends significantly on access to the client base of securities broker-dealers and other financial investment intermediaries that may offer competing investment products. We believe that our future success in developing our business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to continue to maintain these relationships as well as finding additional securities broker-dealers to facilitate offerings by our programs or to find investors for our REIT and other investment programs. We cannot be sure that we will continue to gain access to these channels. The termination of any of our broker-dealer relationships, especially given the limited number of key broker-dealers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our REIT is sold through third-party broker-dealers who are members of our selling group. While we have established relationships with our selling group, we are required to enter into a new agreement with each member of the selling group for each new program we offer. In addition, our REIT may be removed from a selling broker-dealers approved program list at any time for any reason. We cannot assure you of the continued participation of existing members of our selling group nor can we make an assurance that our selling group will expand. While we seek to diversify and add new investment channels for our programs, a significant portion of the growth in recent years in our REIT platform have been as a result of capital raised by a relatively limited number of broker-dealers. Loss of any of these key broker-dealer relationships, or the failure to develop new relationships to cover our expanding business through new investment channels, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Misconduct by third-party selling broker-dealers or our sales force, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on selling broker-dealers and our sales force to properly offer our securities programs to customers in compliance with our selling agreements and with applicable regulatory requirements. While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against us. Our REIT is structured to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. If our REIT fails to satisfy the requirements necessary to permit this favorable tax treatment, we could be subject to claims by investors 18 Table of Contents and our reputation for structuring these transactions would be negatively affected, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We structure public non-traded REITs to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. For example, qualified REITs generally are not subject to federal income tax at corporate rates, which permits REITs to make larger distributions to investors (i.e. without reduction for federal income tax imposed at the corporate level). If our REIT fails to satisfy the complex requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we could be subject to claims by investors as a result of additional tax they may be required to pay or because they are unable to receive the distributions they expected at the time they made their investment. In addition, any failure to satisfy applicable tax regulations in structuring our programs would negatively affect our reputation, which would in turn affect our ability to earn additional fees from new programs. Claims by investors could lead to losses and any reduction in our fees would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Regulatory uncertainties related to our broker-dealer services could harm our business. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. The SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of our officers or employees. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on an internal system to ensure compliance, as well as the ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance with these securities regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. An increase in interest rates may negatively affect the equity value of our programs or cause us to lose potential investors to alternative investments, causing the fees we receive for transaction and management services to be reduced. Although in the last few years, interest rates in the United States have generally decreased, if interest rates were to rise, our financing costs would likely rise and our net yield to investors may decline. This downward pressure on net yields to investors in our programs could compare poorly to rising yields on alternative investments. Additionally, as interest rates rise, valuations of commercial real estate properties typically decline. A decrease in both the attractiveness of our programs and the value of assets held by these programs could cause a decrease in both transaction and management services revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede our ability to make future acquisitions which would reduce the fees we generate from investment programs and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, national and regional level. Our programs face competition from REITs, institutional pension plans, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors for the acquisition of properties and for raising capital to create programs to make these acquisitions. Competition may prevent our programs from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price they must pay for real estate. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If our programs pay higher prices for properties, investors may experience a lower return on investment and be less inclined to invest in our next program which may decrease our profitability. Increased competition for properties may also preclude our programs from acquiring properties that would generate the most attractive returns to investors or may reduce the number of properties our programs could acquire, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Healthcare REIT II’s real estate investments may be concentrated in medical office buildings or other healthcare-related facilities, making it more vulnerable economically than if its investments were diversified. As a REIT, Healthcare REIT II will invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, Healthcare REIT II has and will continue to acquire or selectively develop and own medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities. Therefore, Healthcare REIT II is subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. These risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of its business strategy to invest to a substantial degree in healthcare-related facilities. A downturn in the commercial real estate industry generally could significantly adversely affect the value of Healthcare REIT II’s properties. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect Healthcare REIT II’s lessees’ ability to make lease payments to it and its ability to pay distributions to its stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if Healthcare REIT II diversified its investments outside of real estate or if its portfolio did not include a substantial concentration in medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities. Such adverse effects to Healthcare REIT II could result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Daymark Business Declines in asset value, reductions in distributions in investment programs or loss of properties to foreclosure could adversely affect Daymark’s business, as it could cause harm to its reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and potentially expose it to legal liability. The current market value of many of the properties owned through the investment programs managed by Daymark has decreased as a result of the overall decline in the economy and commercial real estate markets. In addition, there have been reductions in distributions in numerous investment programs, in many instances to a zero percent distribution rate. Many investment programs may have insufficient capitalization, and may not be able to satisfy near and mid-term operating and capital expense requirements. Significant declines in value and reductions in distributions in the investment programs managed by Daymark could adversely affect our and Daymark’s reputation and cause it to lose asset and property management contracts or cause it to waive or reduce its fees, including disposition fees. The loss of value may be significant enough to cause certain investment programs to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Significant losses in asset value and investor equity and reductions in distributions increase the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in further damage to our and Daymark’s reputation and incurrence of legal expenses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure by Daymark’s subsidiaries, including NNNRA, to maintain minimum net worth requirements could negatively impact Daymark’s operations. NNNRA and certain of its affiliates are required to maintain a specified level of minimum net worth under loan documents related to certain TIC programs that it has sponsored. As of December 31, 2010, NNNRA’s net worth was below the contractually specified level of $10 million or $15 million required with respect to approximately 30 percent of its managed TIC programs. Except as discussed below, this circumstance does not, in and of itself, create any direct recourse liability for NNNRA under the mortgage loans, failure to meet the minimum net worth on these programs could result in the imposition of an event of default under these TIC loan agreements, and may result in the termination of TIC management agreements, other loss of business, reputational damage and other negative effects that may, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Daymark’s operations. As of December 31, 2010, NNNRA’s failure to maintain the minimum required net worth may result in NNNRA and Grubb & Ellis Company potentially becoming liable for up to $7.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in the aggregate, in loan repayment obligations pursuant to certain partial-recourse loan guarantees issued for certain of these TIC programs. There can be no assurance that NNNRA, Grubb & Ellis Company or any of its other affiliates required to maintain a specified level of minimum net worth under TIC program loan documents will be able to meet such requirements on an ongoing basis. 20 Table of Contents Failure by Daymark’s subsidiary, Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, to maintain a minimum net worth of $500,000 will trigger an event of default under the NNN Collateralized Senior Notes of $16.3 million. As of December 31, 2010, NNN Collateralized Senior Notes, LLC, an affiliate of Daymark, had $16.3 million in senior notes outstanding at a fixed interest rate of 8.75% per annum (the “NNN Senior Notes”). As described in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, the NNN Senior Notes mature on August 29, 2011, with two one-year options to extend the maturity date. The NNN Senior Notes are a general obligation of NNN Collateralized Senior Notes, LLC and are guaranteed by GERI. The GERI guarantee requires GERI to maintain an ongoing minimum net worth of $0.5 million. There can be no assurance that GERI will be able to maintain this level of net worth or to maintain a net worth above $0.5 million. GERI’s failure to maintain a net worth of $0.5 million would trigger a default under the NNN Senior Notes. Should such a default be triggered and the repayment of the NNN Senior Notes accelerated, NNN Collateralized Senior Notes, LLC and GERI may not be able to repay or refinance the NNN Senior Notes. Failure of NNN Collateralized Senior Notes, LLC and GERI to repay the NNN Senior Notes as they come due would likely have a materially negative impact on our ongoing business, and the Daymark operations in particular. Daymark’s affiliates may have liability under certain “non-recourse carve-out” guarantees as a result of bankruptcy filings by non-affiliated tenant-in-common owners. Two unaffiliated, individual investor entities, who are minority owners in two TIC programs managed by Daymark, filed for bankruptcy protection in February 2011. One of our investment management affiliates, GERI, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of Daymark and formerly known as Triple Net Properties, LLC, executed a non-recourse carve-out guarantee in connection with the mortgage loan associated with one of these programs, and a non-recourse indemnity in connection with the mortgage loans associated with the other program. As a consequence of these bankruptcy filings, GERI may become liable under these guarantee and indemnity agreements. The principal balance of the mortgage debt for these two properties was approximately $36.0 million in the aggregate at the time of the bankruptcies. While GERI’s ultimate liability under these agreements is uncertain as a result of numerous factors, including, without limitation, the amount of the lender’s credit bids at the time of foreclosure, events in the individual bankruptcy proceedings and the ultimate disposition of those bankruptcy proceedings, the value of the underlying properties and the defenses GERI may raise under the guarantee and indemnity, such liability may be in an amount in excess of the net worth of GERI and may have a material adverse effect on GERI’s cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that additional investor entities will not file for bankruptcy protection under other TIC programs and trigger additional potential liability under non-recourse carve-out guarantees and indemnities. Daymark’s officers and directors, in the exercise of their fiduciary duties, may make decisions that are contrary to our best interests. While Daymark is our wholly owned direct subsidiary, Daymark is managed by a separate board of directors and officers. The directors and officers of Daymark and its subsidiaries owe fiduciary duties to the various stakeholders of Daymark, including us. However, in the operation of its business, there may be situations that arise whereby the officers and directors of Daymark and its affiliates, in the exercise of their fiduciary duties, take actions that may be contrary to our best interests. Daymark’s revenues are depended on the performance of the portfolio it manages. We derive fees for Daymark’s services based on a percentage of the price of the properties sold and for management services based on a percentage of the rental amounts of the properties in our programs. As a result, Daymark’s revenues are dependent on the overall value of the properties it manages, as well as the ability of such properties to attract and retain tenants and generate incomes. If property valuations or performance declines, Daymark’s services fees will be reduced, including the disposition fees that are collected upon sale of the properties. There can be no assurance that Daymark will maintain current levels of transaction and management service fees in the future. 21 Table of Contents Daymark’s management agreements are subject to termination. The management agreements under which Daymark provides property management services to its sponsored TIC programs may generally be terminated by a single TIC investor with cause upon 30 days notice or without cause annually upon renewal. Appointment of a new property manager requires unanimous agreement of the TIC investors and, generally, the approval of the lender. We have received termination notices on approximately one-third of our managed TIC properties resulting in the termination of several property management agreements during 2010. As a result of these termination notices, it is not likely that we will be able to retain all of the management contracts for these properties. Loss of a significant number of contracts and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of Daymark’s managed programs were structured to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. If a program fails to satisfy the requirements necessary to permit this favorable tax treatment, Daymark and its affiliates could be subject to claims by investors, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Daymark’s affiliates structured TIC programs to permit TIC investors to defer the recognition of gain on sale of investment or business property upon entering into a 1031 exchange. If Daymark’s affiliates failed to properly structure a TIC transaction, they could be subject to claims by investors as a result of additional tax they may be required to pay or because they are unable to receive the distributions they expected at the time they made their investment. In addition, any failure to satisfy applicable tax regulations in structuring our programs would negatively affect Daymark’s reputation. Claims by investors could lead to losses and any reduction in management fees could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Future pressures to lower, waive or credit back our fees could reduce Daymark’s revenue and profitability. We have on occasion waived or credited our fees for financings, dispositions and management fees for our TIC programs to improve projected investment returns and attract and retain TIC management assignments. There has also been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the third-party asset management business, and fees paid for the management of properties in Daymark’s TIC programs have followed these trends. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current fee structures. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. We depend upon our programs’ tenants to pay rent, and their inability to pay rent may substantially reduce certain fees we receive which are based on gross rental amounts. Our programs are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real estate. For example, the income we are able to generate from management fees is derived from the gross rental income on the properties in our programs. The rental income depends upon the ability of the tenants of our programs’ properties to generate enough income to make their lease payments. Changes beyond our control may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to make lease payments or could require them to terminate their leases. Either an inability to make lease payments or a termination of one or more leases could reduce the management fees we receive. These changes include, among others, the following: • downturns in national or regional economic conditions where our programs’ properties are located, which generally will negatively impact the demand and rental rates; • changes in local market conditions such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease or new construction, or a reduction in demand for properties in our programs, making it more difficult for our programs to lease space at attractive rental rates or at all; • competition from other available properties, which could cause our programs to lose current or prospective tenants or cause them to reduce rental rates; and 22 Table of Contents • changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. Due to these changes, among others, tenants and lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments. Defaults by tenants or the failure of any lease guarantors to fulfill their obligations, or other early termination of a lease could, depending upon the size of the leased premises and our ability as property manager to successfully find a substitute tenant, have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Conflicts of interest inherent in transactions between our programs and us, and among our programs, could create liability for us that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These conflicts include but are not limited to the following: • we experience conflicts of interests with certain of our directors, officers and affiliates from time to time with regard to any of our investments, transactions and agreements in which we hold a direct or indirect pecuniary interest; • since we receive both management fees and disposition fees for our programs’ properties, we could be in conflict with our programs over whether their properties should be sold or held by the program and we may make decisions or take actions based on factors other than in the best interest of investors of a particular sponsored investor program; • we may face conflicts of interests as to how we allocate prospective tenants among competing programs; • we may face conflicts of interests if programs sell properties to each other or invest in each other; and • our executive officers will devote only as much of their time to a program as they determine is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than full time; during times of intense activity in other programs, these officers may devote less time and fewer resources to a program than are necessary or appropriate to manage the program’s business. We cannot assure you that one or more of these conflicts will not result in claims by investors in our programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The offerings conducted to raise capital for our TIC programs were done in reliance on exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. A failure to satisfy the requirements for the appropriate exemption could provide the investors with rescission rights, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The securities of our TIC programs were offered and sold in reliance upon a private placement offering exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. If we or our dealer-manager failed to comply with the requirements of the relevant exemption and an offering were in process, we may have to terminate the offering. If an offering was completed, the investors may have the right, if they so desired, to rescind their purchase of the securities. A rescission offer could also be required under applicable state securities laws and regulations in states where any securities were offered without registration or qualification pursuant to a private offering or other exemption. If a number of holders sought rescission at one time, the applicable program would be required to make significant payments which could adversely affect our business and as a result, the fees generated by us from such program. If one of our programs was forced to make a rescission offer, our reputation would also likely be significantly harmed. Any reduction in fees as a result of a rescission offer or a loss of reputation would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The inability to identify suitable refinance options may negatively impact investment program performance and cause harm to our reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and potentially expose us to legal liability. The availability of real estate financing, particularly for TIC ownership structures, has greatly diminished over the past few years as a result of the global credit crisis and overall decline in the real estate market. In 23 Table of Contents addition, reductions in asset values have made it necessary to infuse additional capital in order to refinance maturing loans. As a result, the TIC owners may not be able to refinance some or all of the loans maturing in our TIC management portfolio. In addition, TIC owners may be required to alter their ownership structure in order to recapitalize or refinance their properties and lose the ability to complete future Section 1031 tax-deferred exchanges. Failure to obtain suitable refinance options may have a negative impact on investment returns and may potentially cause investments to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Any such negative impact on distributions, foreclosure or loss of equity in an investment program could adversely affect Daymark’s reputation and cause us to lose asset and property management contracts. Significant losses in investor equity and reductions in distributions increase the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in damage to our reputation, loss of management contracts and incurrence of legal expenses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to us in General Delaware law and provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments on the ability or desire of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareowners, and we will be subject to these Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Additionally, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover of us. The provisions include: • the authority of our board to issue, without shareowner approval, preferred stock with such terms as our board may determine; • the authority of our board to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; and • a prohibition on holders of less than a majority of our outstanding shares of capital stock calling a special meeting of our shareowners. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent us from a change of control or an acquisition at a price that our shareowners may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareowners to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have the ability to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The Board of Directors has the right to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of holders of common stock and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. There are currently nineteen million authorized and undesignated shares of preferred stock that could be so issued. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without any further shareowner approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock in addition to the currently outstanding 12% Preferred Stock. We are authorized to fix and state the voting rights, powers, designations, preferences and relative participation or other special rights of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon. Preferred stock typically ranks prior to the common stock with respect to dividend rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full, limited, or expanded voting rights. Accordingly, issuances of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents We have shelf registrations on behalf of various security owners currently outstanding and may be obligated to file another shelf registration statement immediately, all of which could have a negative impact on our share price. We currently have three (3) effective registrations outstanding, (i) one for an institutional purchaser of the 12% Preferred Stock, (ii) one for Kojaian Ventures, L.L.C. and Kojaian Holdings, LLC, and (iii) one for the purchasers of our Convertible Notes. These three (3) shelf registration statements represent an aggregate of 37,656,937 shares of our common stock. We will be obligated to file a fourth registration statement in the event we obtain the requisite consents in connection with out current consent solicitation under our Convertible Notes. In the event that holders of a material amount of these currently registered shares (and shares to be registered) decided to sell them at the same time or at an inopportune time, it could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. There are an aggregate of 401,928 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2010 subject to issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options. Accordingly, these shares will be available for sale in the open market, subject to vesting restrictions, and, in the case of affiliates, certain volume limitations. The sale of shares either pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options or as after the satisfaction of vesting restriction of certain restricted stock could also cause the price of our common stock to decline. The 12% Preferred Stock will rank senior to our common stock but junior to all of our liabilities and our subsidiaries’ liabilities, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the 12% Preferred Stock only after all of our liabilities have been paid, but prior to any payments are made with respect to our common stock. In addition, the 12% Preferred Stock effectively ranks junior to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. The rights of holders of the 12% Preferred Stock to participate in the assets of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will rank junior to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after paying our liabilities, and our subsidiaries’ liabilities, to pay amounts due on any or all of the 12% Preferred Stock then outstanding. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of the 12% Preferred Stock, (1) dividends are payable only if and when declared by our Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board, and (2) as a Delaware corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments only out of legally available assets. Further, the 12% Preferred Stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions except that a consent of holders representing at least a majority of the 12% Preferred Stock is required to amend our certificate of incorporation as to the terms of the 12% Preferred Stock or to issue additional 12% Preferred Stock that ranks senior to or, to the extent that 225,000 shares of the 12% Preferred Stock remain outstanding, on a parity with, the 12% Preferred Stock. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the 12% Preferred Stock and may negatively impact the holders’ investment. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. In addition, with the applicable consent of holders of the 12% Preferred Stock, we may issue additional preferred stock that ranks senior to, or on parity with, the 12% Preferred Stock. The market price of our common stock or 12% Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or 12% Preferred Stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. For example, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents In addition, each share of 12% Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder thereof into shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the 12% Preferred Stock will dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareowners. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the outstanding shares of our common stock and the 12% Preferred Stock. In addition, the existence of our 12% Preferred Stock may encourage short selling or arbitrage trading activity by market participants because the conversion of our 12% Preferred Stock could depress the price of our equity securities. As noted above, a decline in the market price of the common stock may negatively impact the market price for the 12% Preferred Stock. Holders of the 12% Preferred Stock do not have identical rights as holders of common stock until they acquire the common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to the our common stock. Except for voting and dividend rights, holders of the 12% Preferred Stock have no rights with respect to the common stock until conversion of their 12% Preferred Stock, including rights to respond to tender offers, but investment in the 12% Preferred Stock may be negatively affected by such events. Even though the holders of the 12% Preferred Stock vote on an as-converted basis with holders of the common stock, upon conversion of the 12% Preferred Stock, holders will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of common stock only as to matters for which the record date occurs on or after the applicable conversion date and only to the extent permitted by law, although holders will be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences, or special rights of common stock that may occur as a result of any shareowner action taken before the applicable conversion date. Certain actions, including amendment of our certificate of incorporation, require the additional approval of a majority of holders of the common stock voting as a separate class (excluding shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 12% Preferred Stock). We may not have the funds necessary to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock following a fundamental change. Holders of the notes have the right to require us to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to November 15, 2019. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock at such time, and may not have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to purchase the 12% Preferred Stock may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements outstanding at such time. Moreover, a failure to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock may also constitute an event of default, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, any then existing indebtedness, under any indenture, credit agreement or other agreement outstanding at that time, which could further restrict our ability to make such payments. Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. Should a property sustain damage or an occupant sustain an injury, we may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, co-payments on insured losses or uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss or personal injury, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full damages. In the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose some or all of our capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive, if any, might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties in our programs, the remaining insurance under the applicable policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure the remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than the current policy. A loss at any of these properties or an increase in premium as a result of a loss could decrease the income from or value of properties under management in our programs, which in turn would reduce the fees we receive from these programs. Any decrease or loss in fees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We carry commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to our programs’ properties. We obtain coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are customarily 26 Table of Contents carried for similar properties. We cannot assure you, however, that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be insurable on an economic basis or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available. In addition, we generally do not obtain insurance against certain risks, such as floods. There are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. During the second quarter of 2010, we issued $31.5 million of senior unsecured notes due 2015 which are convertible into shares of our common stock, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal on our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. The Convertible Notes are subject to customary events of default. The indenture governing the Convertible Notes contains customary events of default, including but not limited to a default in the event of our failure to pay any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $1.0 million when due, other than non-recourse mortgage debt. A default would result in acceleration of our repayment obligations under the indenture, which we may not be able to meet or refinance at such time. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or acceptable terms. Accordingly, if we are in default of our Convertible Notes, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not have the funds, or the ability to raise the funds, necessary to repurchase the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change or to repay the Convertible Notes at maturity. Holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the Convertible Notes at par, plus any accrued interest, in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and at maturity of the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes will mature on May 1, 2015 and a fundamental change is generally deemed to have occurred: • when a person or group becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of us; or • upon the consummation of (i) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our common stock; (ii) any statutory share exchange consolidation or merger pursuant to which our common stock is converted into cash, securities or other property; (iii) any disposition, directly or indirectly, of all or substantially all our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, considered as a whole; or • during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted our Board cease for any reason to constitute 50% or more of our Board then in office; or • our shareowners shall have approved any plan of liquidation or dissolution; or • our common stock ceases to be listed on the NYSE, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the NYSE Amex (or their respective successors). We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Convertible Notes at such time, and may not have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to purchase the Convertible Notes may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements outstanding at such time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 