Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company’s Business in General The ongoing downturn in the general economy and the real estate market has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, significantly reduced access to credit, declining employment levels, decreasing demand for real estate, declining real estate values or the perception that any of these events may occur, can reduce transaction volumes or demand for services for each of our business lines. The current recession and the downturn in the real estate market have resulted in and may continue to result in: • a decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity; • a decline in the supply of capital invested in commercial real estate; • a decline in fees collected from investment management programs, which are dependent upon demand for investment in commercial real estate; and • a decline in the value of real estate and in rental rates, which would cause the Company to realize lower revenue from: • property management fees, which in certain cases are calculated as a percentage of the revenue of the property under management; and • commissions or fees derived from property valuation, sales and leasing, which are typically based on the value, sale price or lease revenue commitment, respectively. The declining real estate market in the United States, the availability and cost of credit, increased unemployment, volatile oil prices, declining consumer confidence and the instability of United States banking and financial institutions, have contributed to increased volatility, an overall economic slowdown and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The fragile state of the credit markets, the fear of a global recession for an extended period and the current economic environment have impacted real estate services and investment management firms like ours through reduced transaction volumes, falling transaction values, lower real estate valuations, liquidity restrictions, market volatility, and the loss of confidence. As a consequence, similar to other real estate services and investment management firms, our stock price has declined significantly. Due to the economic downturn, it may take us longer to dispose of real estate assets and investments and the selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. If this occurs, fees from transaction services will be reduced. In addition, the performance of certain properties in the investment management portfolio may be negatively impacted, which would likewise affect our fees. As a result, the carrying value of certain of our real estate investments may become impaired and we could record losses as a result of such impairment or we could experience reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. Pursuant to the requirements of the Property, Plant, and Equipment Topic, the Company assesses the value of its assets and real estate investments. This valuation review resulted in the Company recognizing an impairment charge of approximately $24.0 million against the carrying value of the properties and real estate investments during the year ended December 31, 2009. 9 Table of Contents We are not able to predict the severity or duration of the current adverse economic environment or the disruption in the financial markets. The real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the overall economy and to the perceptions of investors, developers and other market participants as to the economic outlook. The ongoing downturn in the general economy and the real estate market has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The ongoing adverse conditions in the credit markets and the risk of continued market deterioration have adversely affected the Company’s revenues, expenses and operating results and may continue to do so. Our segments are sensitive to credit cost and availability as well as market place liquidity. In addition, the revenues in all our businesses are dependent to some extent on overall volume of activity and pricing in the commercial real estate market. In 2008 and 2009, the credit markets experienced an unprecedented level of disruption and uncertainty. This disruption and uncertainty has reduced the availability and significantly increased the cost of most sources of funding. In certain cases, sources of funding have been eliminated. Disruptions in the credit markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business of providing services to owners, purchasers, sellers, investors and occupants of real estate in connection with acquisitions, dispositions and leasing of real property. If our clients are unable to obtain credit on favorable terms, there will be fewer completed acquisitions, dispositions and leases of property. In addition, if purchasers of real estate are not able to obtain favorable financing resulting in a lack of disposition opportunities for funds whom we act as advisor, our fee revenues will decline and we may also experience losses on real estate held for investment. The recent decline in real estate values and the inability to obtain financing has either eliminated or severely reduced the availability of the Company’s historical funding sources for its investment management programs, and to the extent credit remains available for these programs, it is currently more expensive. The Company may not be able to continue to access sources of funding for its investment management programs or, if available to the Company, the Company may not be able to do so on favorable terms. Any decision by lenders to make additional funds available to the Company in the future for its investment management programs will depend upon a number of factors, such as industry and market trends in our business, the lenders’ own resources and policies concerning loans and investments, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. The depth and duration of the current credit market and liquidity disruptions are impossible to predict. In fact, the magnitude of the recent credit market disruption has exceeded the expectations of most if not all market participants. This uncertainty limits the Company’s ability to develop future business plans and the Company believes that it limits the ability of other participants in the credit markets and the real estate markets to do so as well. This uncertainty may lead market participants to act more conservatively than in recent history, which may continue to depress demand and pricing in our markets. We experienced additional, unanticipated costs and may have additional risk and further costs as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. As a result of the restatement in 2009 of certain audited and unaudited financial data, and the special investigation in connection therewith, we incurred substantial, additional unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees. The restatement and special investigation was also time-consuming and affected management’s attention and resources. Further, there are no assurances that we will not become involved in legal proceedings in the future in relation to these restatements. In connection with any such potential proceedings, any incurred expenses not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any such future legal proceedings could also be time-consuming and distract our management from the conduct of our business. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to access credit and capital markets may be adversely affected by factors beyond its control, including turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in financial markets and general economic downturns. There can be no assurances that the Company’s anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet all of the Company’s cash requirements. The Company intends to continue to make investments to support the Company’s business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges. The Company has historically relied upon access to the credit markets from time to time as a source of liquidity for the portion of its working capital requirements not provided by cash from operations. The Company used a significant portion of the net proceeds from the sale of the 12% Preferred Stock to pay off and terminate the Credit Facility and has not secured a new credit facility or line or credit with which to borrow funds. Market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the United States and other countries may increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the Company’s ability to access sources of capital. These disruptions include turmoil in the financial services and real estate industries, including substantial uncertainty surrounding particular lending institutions, and general economic downturns. If the Company is unable to access credit at competitive rates or at all, or if its short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, the Company’s ability to finance its operations, meet its short-term obligations and implement its operating strategy could be adversely affected. We have received a notice from the NYSE that we did not meet its continued listing requirements. If we are unable to rectify this non-compliance in accordance with NYSE rules, our common stock will be delisted from trading on the NYSE, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock. On August 11, 2009, we received notification from NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we were not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard requiring that we maintain an average market capitalization and shareowners’ equity of not less than $50 million. In connection with the NYSE’s rules, we submitted a business plan to the NYSE on November 3, 2009 evidencing how the Company intends to come into compliance with the continued listing standards and on November 9, 2009, we were advised that the NYSE’s Listing and Compliance Committee has accepted the Company’s business plan. Accordingly, we need to have an average market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading day period of $50 million or total shareowners’ equity of $50 million by April 11, 2011 although we may come into compliance sooner, or based on two consecutive quarterly monitoring periods, which is an ongoing process. The NYSE conducts quarterly reviews during the 18-month period from August 11, 2009 through February 11, 2011. If we are unable to regain compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standard within the required time frame, our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE. As a result, we likely would have our common stock quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC BB”) in order to have our common stock continue to be traded on a public market. Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on the NYSE. Delisting from the NYSE also may preclude us from using certain state securities law exemptions, which could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital in the future and more difficult for us to provide compensation packages sufficient to attract and retain top talent. In addition, because issuers whose securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate governance and other standards imposed by the NYSE, and such issuers receive less news and analyst coverage, our reputation may suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our shares. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, therefore, could significantly disrupt the ability of investors to trade our common stock and could have a material adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our common stock. The TIC business in general, from which the Company has historically generated significant revenues, materially contracted in 2009. The Company has historically generated significant revenues from fees earned through the transaction structuring and property management of its TIC Programs. In 2009, however, with the nationwide decline in real estate values and the global credit crisis, the TIC industry contracted significantly. According to data from 11 Table of Contents OMNI Research & Consulting, approximately $3.7 billion of TIC equity was raised in 2006. In 2009, the amount of TIC equity raised declined by approximately 94% to $228.7 million. As the Company has historically generated a significant amount of revenue from its TIC operations, the rapid and steep decline in this industry may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations if it is unable to generate revenues in its other business segments, of which there can be no assurances, to make up for the loss of TIC-related revenues. The Company does not anticipate the TIC market to recover in the near term. The decline in value of many of the properties purchased by TIC and real estate fund investors in the Company’s sponsored programs as a result of the downturn in the real estate market, and the potential loss of investor equity in these programs, may negatively affect the Company’s reputation and ability to sell future sponsored programs. The declining real estate market has resulted in declining values for many of the properties purchased by investors in the Company’s sponsored TIC and real estate fund programs. In addition, the lack of available credit has negatively impacted the ability to refinance these properties at loan maturity. As a consequence, the TIC and fund program investors may be forced to dispose of their properties at selling prices lower than the original purchase price. In addition, some properties may be valued at less than the outstanding loan amount and may be subject to default and foreclosure by the lender. Sales of these real estate assets at less than original purchase price, loan defaults or foreclosures will result in the loss of investor equity. Losses by investors may negatively affect the reputation of the Company’s investment management business and its ability to sell current or future sponsored programs and earn fees. Any decrease in the Company’s fees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, some of which may have greater financial and operational resources than it does. The Company competes in a variety of service disciplines within the commercial real estate industry. Each of these business areas is highly competitive on a national as well as on a regional and local level. The Company faces competition not only from other national real estate service providers, but also from global real estate service providers, boutique real estate advisory firms, consulting and appraisal firms. Depending on the product or service, the Company also faces competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than the Company does. The Company is also subject to competition from other large national firms and from multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to it. Although many of the Company’s competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than it, some of its competitors are substantially larger than it on a local, regional, national or international basis. In general, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with respect to any of its business lines or on an overall basis, or to maintain current fee levels or margins, or maintain or increase its market share. As a service-oriented company, the Company depends upon the retention of senior management and key personnel, and the loss of its current personnel or its failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm its business. The Company’s success is dependent upon its ability to retain its executive officers and other key employees and to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and the Company may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We use equity incentives to attract and retain our key personnel. In 2009, our stock price declined significantly, resulting in the decline in value of previously provided equity awards, which may result in an increase risk of loss of key personnel. The performance of our stock may also diminish our ability to offer attractive incentive awards to new hires. The 12 Table of Contents Company’s failure to recruit and retain necessary executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel could harm its business and its ability to obtain new customers. The Company may expand its business to include international operations so that it may be more competitive, but in doing so it could subject the Company to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. Although the Company does not currently conduct significant business outside the United States, the Company is considering an expansion of its international operations so that it may be more competitive. Currently, the Company’s lack of international capabilities sometimes places the Company at a competitive disadvantage when prospective clients are seeing one real estate services provider that can service their needs both in the United States and overseas. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to successfully expand its business in international markets. Current global economic conditions may restrict, limit or delay the Company’s ability to expand its business into international markets or make such expansion less economically feasible. If the Company expands into international markets, circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect the Company’s business or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • lack of substantial experience operating in international markets; • lack of recognition of the Grubb & Ellis brand name in international markets; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; • diverse foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; • political instability; and • foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in certain countries. Additionally, the Company may establish joint ventures with foreign entities for the provision of brokerage services abroad, which may involve the purchase or sale of the Company’s equity securities or the equity securities of the joint venture participant(s). In these joint ventures, the Company may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint venture and other participants may take action contrary to the Company’s instructions or requests and against the Company’s policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to the Company’s interest, then it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Failure to manage any future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management will need to successfully manage any future growth effectively. The integration and additional growth may place a significant strain upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The Company’s ability to grow also depends upon its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional executive officers and new employees, obtain financing for its capital needs, expand its systems effectively, allocate its human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication 13 Table of Contents between its transactional and management functions and its finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on its management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to the new geographic locations and business lines of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands it will face as it integrates and continues to expand its operations, and it may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Transaction Services and Management Services Business The Company’s quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate due to the seasonal nature of its business and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of its securities to decline. Historically, the majority of Grubb & Ellis revenue has been derived from the transaction services that it provides. Such services are typically subject to seasonal fluctuations. Grubb & Ellis typically experienced its lowest quarterly revenue in the quarter ending March 31 of each year with higher and more consistent revenue in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30. The quarter ending December 31 has historically provided the highest quarterly level of revenue due to increased activity caused by the desire of clients to complete transactions by calendar year-end. However, the Company’s non-variable operating expenses, which are treated as expenses when incurred during the year, are relatively constant in total dollars on a quarterly basis. As a result, since a high proportion of these operating expenses are fixed, declines in revenue could disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in a quarter. In addition, the Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If the Company’s quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of the Company’s securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. If the properties that the Company manages fail to perform, then its business and results of operations could be harmed. The Company’s success partially depends upon the performance of the properties it manages. The Company could be adversely affected by the nonperformance of, or the deteriorating financial condition of, certain of its clients. The revenue the Company generates from its property management business is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of the Company’s control: • the Company’s ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; • the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; • the Company’s ability to control operating expenses; • governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; • various uninsurable risks; • financial condition of certain clients; • financial conditions prevailing generally and in the areas in which these properties are located; • the nature and extent of competitive properties; and • the general real estate market. These or other factors may negatively impact the properties that the Company manages, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If the Company fails to comply with laws and regulations applicable to real estate brokerage and mortgage transactions and other business lines, then it may incur significant financial penalties. Due to the broad geographic scope of the Company’s operations and the real estate services performed, the Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations specific to the services performed. For example, the brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions requires the Company to maintain brokerage licenses in each state in which it operates. If the Company fails to maintain its licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license or violate any of the regulations applicable to our licenses, then it may be required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous state licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. The failure to comply with both foreign and domestic regulations could result in significant financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may have liabilities in connection with real estate brokerage and property and facilities management activities. As a licensed real estate broker, the Company and its licensed employees and independent contractors that work for it are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject the Company or its employees to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that the Company or they brokered or managed. The Company could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that the Company did not fulfill its statutory obligations as a broker. In addition, in the Company’s property and facilities management businesses, it hires and supervises third-party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for its managed properties. While the Company’s role is limited to that of a supervisor, the Company may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business and/or cause the Company to incur costs for cleanup of hazardous substances or wastes or other environmental liabilities. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various environmental zoning restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company’s real estate brokerage business. In addition, a failure by the Company to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject it to liability to a buyer or lessee of property. In addition, in its role as a property manager, the Company could incur liability under environmental laws for the investigation or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at properties it currently or formerly managed, or at off-site locations where wastes from such properties were disposed. Such liability can be imposed without regard for the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or the Company’s knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination. Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site. The Company could also be held liable for property damage or personal injury claims alleged to result from environmental contamination, or from asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint present at the properties it manages. Insurance for such matters may not be available or sufficient. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in 15 Table of Contents certain buildings, could increase the Company’s costs of legal compliance and potentially subject it to violations or claims. Although such costs have not had a material impact on its financial results or competitive position during fiscal year 2007, 2008 or 2009, the enactment of additional regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could cause it to incur significant costs in the future, and/or adversely impact its brokerage and management services businesses. Risks Related to the Company’s Investment Management and Broker-Dealer Business Declines in asset value, reductions in distributions in investment programs or loss of properties to foreclosure could adversely affect the Company business, as it could cause harm to the Company’s reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and third-party broker-dealer selling agreements, limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and potentially expose the Company to legal liability. The current market value of many of the properties owned through the Company’s investment programs have decreased as a result of the overall decline in the economy and commercial real estate markets. In addition, there have been reductions in distributions in numerous investment programs in 2008 and 2009, in many instances to a zero percent distribution rate. Significant declines in value and reductions in distributions in the investment programs sponsored by the Company could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the Company’s ability to attract investors for future investment programs. In addition, significant declines in value and reductions in distributions could cause the Company to lose asset and property management contracts for its investment management programs, cause the Company to lose third-party broker-dealer selling agreements for existing investment programs, including its REITs, and limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer agreements. The loss of value may be significant enough to cause certain investment programs to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Significant losses in asset value and investor equity and reductions in distributions increases the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in further damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and incurrence of legal expenses which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company currently provides its Investment Management services primarily to its investment programs. Its revenue depends on the number of its programs, on the price of the properties acquired or disposed, and on the revenue generated by the properties under its management. The Company derives fees for Investment Management services based on a percentage of the price of the properties acquired or disposed of by its programs and for management services based on a percentage of the rental amounts of the properties in its programs. The Company is responsible for the management of all of the properties owned by its programs, but as of December 31, 2009 it had subcontracted the property management of approximately 11.0% of its programs’ office, medical office and healthcare related facilities and retail properties (based on square footage) and 16.3% of its programs’ multi-family apartment units to third parties. For REITs, investment decisions are controlled by the Board of Directors of REITs that are independent of the Company. Investment decisions of these Boards affect the fees earned by the Company. As a result, if any of the Company’s programs are unsuccessful, its Investment Management services fees will be reduced, if any are paid at all. In addition, failures of the Company’s programs to provide competitive investment returns could significantly impair its ability to market future programs. The Company’s inability to spread risk among a large number of programs could cause it to be over-reliant on a limited number of programs for its revenues. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain current levels of transaction and management services for its programs’ properties. The Company may be required to repay loans the Company guaranteed that were used to finance properties acquired by the Company’s programs. From time to time the Company or its investment management subsidiaries provided guarantees of loans for properties under management. As of December 31, 2009, there were 146 properties under management with loan guarantees of approximately $3.6 billion in total principal outstanding with terms ranging from 1 to 16 Table of Contents 10 years, secured by properties with a total aggregate purchase price of approximately $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. The Company’s guarantees consisted of non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of debt of properties under management, non-recourse/carve-out guarantees of the Company’s debt, recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management and recourse guarantees of the Company’s debt. A “non-recourse/carve-out” guarantee imposes personal liability on the guarantor in the event the borrower engages in certain acts prohibited by the loan documents. Each non-recourse carve-out guarantee is an individual document entered into with the mortgage lender in connection with the purchase or refinance of an individual property. While there is not a standard document evidencing these guarantees, liability under the non-recourse carve-out guarantees generally may be triggered by, among other things, any or all of the following: • a voluntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceeding of any borrower; • a “transfer” of the property or any interest therein in violation of the loan documents; • a violation by any borrower of the special purpose entity requirements set forth in the loan documents; • any fraud or material misrepresentation by any borrower or any guarantor in connection with the loan; • the gross negligence or willful misconduct by any borrower in connection with the property, the loan or any obligation under the loan documents; • the misapplication, misappropriation or conversion of (i) any rents, security deposits, proceeds or other funds, (ii) any insurance proceeds paid by reason of any loss, damage or destruction to the property, and (iii) any awards or other amounts received in connection with the condemnation of all or a portion of the property; • any waste of the property caused by acts or omissions of borrower of the removal or disposal of any portion of the property after an event of default under the loan documents; and • the breach of any obligations set forth in an environmental or hazardous substances indemnification agreement from borrower. Certain violations (typically the first three listed above) render the entire debt balance recourse to the guarantor regardless of the actual damage incurred by lender, while the liability for other violations is limited to the damages incurred by the lender. Notice and cure provisions vary between guarantees. Generally the guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the lender the payment and performance of the guaranteed obligations as and when the same shall be due and payable, whether by lapse of time, by acceleration or maturity or otherwise, and the guarantor covenants and agrees that it is liable for the guaranteed obligations as a primary obligor. As of December 31, 2009, to the best of the Company’s knowledge, there is no amount of debt owed by the Company as a result of the borrowers engaging in prohibited acts. In addition, the consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) and unconsolidated VIEs are jointly and severally liable on the non-recourse mortgage debt related to the interests in the Company’s TIC investments totaling $277.0 million and $154.8 million as of December 31, 2009, respectively. As property values and performance decline, the risk of exposure under these guarantees increases. Management initially evaluates these guarantees to determine if the guarantee meets the criteria required to record a liability in accordance with the Guarantees Topic. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had recourse guarantees of $33.9 million and $42.4 million, respectively, relating to debt of properties under management. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $9.8 million of these recourse guarantees relate to debt that has matured or is not currently in compliance with certain loan covenants. In evaluating the potential liability relating to such guarantees, the Company considers factors such as the value of the properties secured by the debt, the likelihood that the lender will call the guarantee in light of the current debt service and other factors. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded a liability of $3.8 million and $9.1 million, respectively, related to its estimate of probable loss related to recourse guarantees of debt of properties under management which matured in January and April 2009. 17 Table of Contents Our evaluation of the potential liability may prove to be inaccurate and liabilities may exceed estimates. In the event that actual losses materially exceed estimates, individual investment management subsidiaries may not be able to pay such obligations as they become due. Failure of any investment management subsidiary to pay its debts as they become due would likely have a materially negative impact on the ongoing business of the Company, and the investment management operations in particular. The Company may be unable to grow its investment programs, which would cause it to fail to satisfy its business strategy. A significant element of the Company business strategy is the growth in the size and number of its investment programs. The success of each investment program will depend on raising adequate capital for the investment, identifying appropriate assets for acquisition and effectively and efficiently closing the transactions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and invest in additional properties or will be able to raise adequate capital to grow or launch new programs in the future. If the Company is unable to grow its existing vehicles or consummate new programs in the future, growth of the revenue it receives from transaction and management services may be negatively affected. The revenue streams from the Company’s management services for sponsored programs are subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which the Company provides advisory and management services to public non-traded REITs the Company has sponsored may generally be terminated by each REIT’s independent Board of Directors following a notice period, with or without cause. The Company cannot assure you that these agreements will not be terminated. Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT, Inc. (now Healthcare Trust of America, Inc. as of August 31, 2009) did not renew its Advisory Agreement with a subsidiary of the Company upon the termination of the Advisory Agreement on September 20, 2009 and, as a result, the Company’s asset and property management fees have been reduced. The management agreements under which the Company provides property management services to its sponsored TIC programs may generally be terminated by a single TIC investor with cause upon 30 days notice or without cause annually upon renewal. Appointment of a new property manager requires unanimous agreement of the TIC investors and, generally, the approval of the lender. The Company has received termination notices on approximately one-third of its managed TIC properties resulting in the termination of one property management agreement during 2009. Although the Company is disputing these terminations, it is not likely that the Company will be able to retain all of the management contracts for these properties. Loss of a significant number of contracts and fees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The inability to access investors for the Company’s programs through broker-dealers or other intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s ability to source capital for its programs depends significantly on access to the client base of securities broker-dealers and other financial investment intermediaries that may offer competing investment products. The Company believes that its future success in developing its business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on its ability to continue to maintain these relationships as well as finding additional securities broker-dealers to facilitate offerings by its programs or to find investors for the Company’s REITs, TIC Programs and other investment programs. The Company cannot be sure that it will continue to gain access to these channels. In addition, competition for capital is intense and the Company may not be able to obtain the capital required to complete a program. The inability to have this access could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The termination of any of the Company’s broker-dealer relationships, especially given the limited number of key broker-dealers, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s securities programs are sold through third-party broker-dealers who are members of its selling group. While the Company has established relationships with its selling group, it is required to enter into a new agreement with each member of the selling group for each new program it offers. In addition, the Company’s programs may be removed from a selling broker-dealer’s approved program list at any time for any reason. The Company cannot assure you of the continued participation of existing members of its selling group nor can the Company make an assurance that its selling group will expand. While the Company seeks to diversify and add new investment channels for its programs, a significant portion of the growth in recent years in the TIC and REIT programs it sponsors has been as a result of capital raised by a relatively limited number of broker-dealers. Loss of any of these key broker-dealer relationships, or the failure to develop new relationships to cover the Company’s expanding business through new investment channels, could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Misconduct by third-party selling broker-dealers or the Company’s sales force, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company relies on selling broker-dealers and the Company’s sales force to properly offer its securities programs to customers in compliance with its selling agreements and with applicable regulatory requirements. While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against the Company. A significant amount of the Company’s programs are structured to provide favorable tax treatment to investors or REITs. If a program fails to satisfy the requirements necessary to permit this favorable tax treatment, the Company could be subject to claims by investors and its reputation for structuring these transactions would be negatively affected, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company structures TIC Programs and public non-traded REITs to provide favorable tax treatment to investors. For example, its TIC investors are able to defer the recognition of gain on sale of investment or business property if they enter into a 1031 exchange. Similarly, qualified REITs generally are not subject to federal income tax at corporate rates, which permits REITs to make larger distributions to investors (i.e. without reduction for federal income tax imposed at the corporate level). If the Company fails to properly structure a TIC transaction or if a REIT fails to satisfy the complex requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, the Company could be subject to claims by investors as a result of additional tax they may be required to pay or because they are unable to receive the distributions they expected at the time they made their investment. In addition, any failure to satisfy applicable tax regulations in structuring its programs would negatively affect the Company’s reputation, which would in turn affect its ability to earn additional fees from new programs. Claims by investors could lead to losses and any reduction in the Company’s fees would have a material adverse effect on its revenues. Any future co-investment activities the Company undertakes could subject it to real estate investment risks which could lead to the need for substantial capital contributions, which may impact its cash flows and financial condition and, if it is unable to make them, could damage its reputation and result in adverse consequences to its holdings. The Company may from time to time invest its capital in certain real estate investments with other real estate firms or with institutional investors such as pension plans. Any co-investment will generally require the Company to make initial capital contributions, and some co-investment entities may request additional capital from the Company and its subsidiaries holding investments in those assets. These contributions could adversely impact the Company’s cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, the failure to provide these contributions could have adverse consequences to the Company’s interests in these investments. These adverse consequences could include damage to the Company’s reputation with its co-investment partners as well as 19 Table of Contents dilution of ownership and the necessity of obtaining alternative funding from other sources that may be on disadvantageous terms, if available at all. Geographic concentration of program properties may expose the Company’s programs to regional economic downturns that could adversely impact their operations and, as a result, the fees the Company is able to generate from them, including fees on disposition of the properties as the Company may be limited in its ability to dispose of properties in a challenging real estate market. The Company’s programs generally focus on acquiring assets satisfying particular investment criteria, such as type or quality of tenants. There is generally no or little focus on the geographic location of a particular property. The Company cannot guarantee, however, that its programs will have, or will be able to maintain, a significant amount of geographic diversity. Although the Company’s property programs are located in 29 states, a majority of these properties (by square footage) are located in Texas, Georgia, North Carolina, Florida and California. Geographic concentration of properties exposes the Company’s programs to economic downturns in the areas where the properties are located. A regional recession or other major, localized economic disruption in a region, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, in any of these areas could adversely affect the Company’s programs’ ability to generate or increase their operating revenues, attract new tenants or dispose of unproductive properties. Any reduction in program revenues would effectively reduce the fees the Company generates from them, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. If third-party managers providing property management services for the Company’s programs’ office, medical office and healthcare related facilities, retail and multi-family properties are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, the tenants may not renew their leases or the Company may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company has entered into agreements with third-party management companies to provide property management services for a significant number of the Company’s programs’ properties, and the Company expects to enter into similar third-party management agreements with respect to properties the Company’s programs acquire in the future. The Company does not supervise these third-party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and the Company cannot assure you that they will manage the Company’s programs’ properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under the Company’s agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to the Company. If any of the foregoing occurs, the relationships with the Company’s programs’ tenants could be damaged, which may cause the tenants not to renew their leases, and the Company could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to the properties or to persons at the properties. If the Company is unable to lease the properties or the Company becomes subject to significant liabilities as a result of third-party management performance issues, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be substantially harmed. The Company or its new programs may be required to incur future indebtedness to raise sufficient funds to purchase properties. One of the Company’s business strategies is to develop new investment programs. The development of a new program requires the identification and subsequent acquisition of properties when the opportunity arises. In some instances, in order to effectively and efficiently complete a program, the Company may provide deposits for the acquisition of property or actually purchase the property and warehouse it temporarily for the program. If the Company does not have cash on hand available to pay these deposits or fund an acquisition, the Company or the Company’s programs may be required to incur additional indebtedness, which indebtedness may not be available on acceptable terms. If the Company incurs substantial debt, the Company could lose its interests in any properties that have been provided as collateral for any secured borrowing, or the Company could lose its assets if the debt is recourse to it. In addition, the Company’s cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay these obligations upon their maturity, making it necessary for the 20 Table of Contents Company to raise additional capital or dispose of some of its assets. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to borrow additional debt on satisfactory terms, or at all. Future pressures to lower, waive or credit back the Company’s fees could reduce the Company’s revenue and profitability. The Company has on occasion waived or credited its fees for real estate acquisitions, financings, dispositions and management fees for the Company’s TIC Programs to improve projected investment returns and attract TIC investors. There has also been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the third-party asset management business, and fees paid for the management of properties in the Company’s TIC Programs or public non-traded REITs could follow these trends. In order for the Company to maintain its fee structure in a competitive environment, the Company must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its current fee structures. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. Regulatory uncertainties related to the Company’s broker-dealer services could harm the Company’s business. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. The SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions can censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on an internal system to ensure compliance, as well as the ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. The Company could be subject to disciplinary or other actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance with these securities regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. The Company depends upon its programs’ tenants to pay rent, and their inability to pay rent may substantially reduce certain fees the Company receives which are based on gross rental amounts. The Company’s programs are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real estate. For example, the income the Company is able to generate from management fees is derived from the gross rental income on the properties in its programs. The rental income depends upon the ability of the tenants of the Company’s programs’ properties to generate enough income to make their lease payments. Changes beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to make lease payments or could require them to terminate their leases. Either an inability to make lease payments or a termination of one or more leases could reduce the management fees the Company receives. These changes include, among others, the following: • downturns in national or regional economic conditions where the Company’s programs’ properties are located, which generally will negatively impact the demand and rental rates; • changes in local market conditions such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease or new construction, or a reduction in demand for properties in the Company’s programs, making it more difficult for the Company’s programs to lease space at attractive rental rates or at all; • competition from other available properties, which could cause the Company’s programs to lose current or prospective tenants or cause them to reduce rental rates; and • changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. Due to these changes, among others, tenants and lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments. 21 Table of Contents Defaults by tenants or the failure of any lease guarantors to fulfill their obligations, or other early termination of a lease could, depending upon the size of the leased premises and the Company’s ability as property manager to successfully find a substitute tenant, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Conflicts of interest inherent in transactions between the Company’s programs and the Company, and among its programs, could create liability for the Company that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. These conflicts include but are not limited to the following: • the Company experiences conflicts of interests with certain of its directors, officers and affiliates from time to time with regard to any of its investments, transactions and agreements in which it holds a direct or indirect pecuniary interest; • since the Company receives both management fees and acquisition and disposition fees for its programs’ properties, the Company could be in conflict with its programs over whether their properties should be sold or held by the program and the Company may make decisions or take actions based on factors other than in the best interest of investors of a particular sponsored investor program; • a component of the compensation of certain of the Company’s executives is based on the performance of particular programs, which could cause the executives to favor those programs over others; • the Company may face conflicts of interests as to how it allocates property acquisition opportunities or prospective tenants among competing programs; • the Company may face conflicts of interests if programs sell properties to each other or invest in each other; and • the Company’s executive officers will devote only as much of their time to a program as they determine is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than full time; during times of intense activity in other programs, these officers may devote less time and fewer resources to a program than are necessary or appropriate to manage the program’s business. The Company cannot assure you that one or more of these conflicts will not result in claims by investors in its programs, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The offerings conducted to raise capital for the Company’s TIC Programs are done in reliance on exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. A failure to satisfy the requirements for the appropriate exemption could void the offering or, if it is already completed, provide the investors with rescission rights, either of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and as a result its business and results of operations. The securities of the Company’s TIC Programs are offered and sold in reliance upon a private placement offering exemption from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. If the Company or its dealer-manager failed to comply with the requirements of the relevant exemption and an offering were in process, the Company may have to terminate the offering. If an offering was completed, the investors may have the right, if they so desired, to rescind their purchase of the securities. A rescission offer could also be required under applicable state securities laws and regulations in states where any securities were offered without registration or qualification pursuant to a private offering or other exemption. If a number of holders sought rescission at one time, the applicable program would be required to make significant payments which could adversely affect its business and as a result, the fees generated by the Company from such program. If one of the Company’s programs was forced to terminate an offering before it was completed or to make a rescission offer, the Company’s reputation would also likely be significantly harmed. Any reduction in fees as a result of a rescission offer or a loss of reputation would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The inability to identify suitable refinance options may negatively impact investment program performance and cause harm to the Company’s reputation, cause the loss of management contracts and third-party broker-dealer selling agreements, limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and potentially expose the Company to legal liability. The availability of real estate financing has greatly diminished over the past few years as a result of the global credit crisis and overall decline in the real estate market. As a result, the Company may not be able to refinance some or all of the loans maturing in its investment management portfolio. Failure to obtain suitable refinance options may have a negative impact on investment returns and may potentially cause investments to go into foreclosure or result in a complete loss of equity for program investors. Any such negative impact on distributions, foreclosure or loss of equity in an investment program could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the Company’s ability to attract investors for future investment programs. In addition, it could cause the Company to lose asset and property management contracts, cause the Company to lose third-party broker-dealer selling agreements for existing investment programs, including its REITs, and limit the Company’s ability to sign future third-party broker-dealer agreements. Significant losses in investor equity and reductions in distributions increase the risk of claims or legal actions by program investors. Any such legal liability could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, loss of third-party broker-dealer selling agreements and incurrence of legal expenses which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in interest rates may negatively affect the equity value of the Company’s programs or cause the Company to lose potential investors to alternative investments, causing the fees the Company receives for transaction and management services to be reduced. Although in the last two years, interest rates in the United States have generally decreased, if interest rates were to rise, the Company’s financing costs would likely rise and the Company’s net yield to investors may decline. This downward pressure on net yields to investors in the Company’s programs could compare poorly to rising yields on alternative investments. Additionally, as interest rates rise, valuations of commercial real estate properties typically decline. A decrease in both the attractiveness of the Company’s programs and the value of assets held by these programs could cause a decrease in both transaction and management services revenues, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede the Company’s ability to make future acquisitions which would reduce the fees the Company generates from these programs and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, national and regional level. The Company’s programs face competition from REITs, institutional pension plans, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors for the acquisition of properties and for raising capital to create programs to make these acquisitions. Competition may prevent the Company’s programs from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price they must pay for real estate. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If the Company’s programs pay higher prices for properties, investors may experience a lower return on investment and be less inclined to invest in the Company’s next program which may decrease the Company’s profitability. Increased competition for properties may also preclude the Company’s programs from acquiring properties that would generate the most attractive returns to investors or may reduce the number of properties the Company’s programs could acquire, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the Company’s programs’ properties and harm the Company’s financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to promptly facilitate a sale of one or more properties or investments in the Company’s programs in response to changing economic, 23 Table of Contents financial and investment conditions may be limited. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in the market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in regional, national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Fees from the disposition of properties would be materially affected if the Company were unable to facilitate a significant number of property dispositions for the Company’s programs. Risks Related to the Company in General Delaware law and provisions of the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments on the ability or desire of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to its existing shareowners, and the Company will be subject to these Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Additionally, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its restated bylaws contain provisions that might enable its management to resist a proposed takeover of the Company. The provisions include: • the authority of the Company’s board to issue, without shareowner approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Company’s board may determine; • the authority of the Company’s board to adopt, amend or repeal the Company’s bylaws; and • a prohibition on holders of less than a majority of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock calling a special meeting of the Company’s shareowners. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or an acquisition of the Company at a price that its shareowners may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for the Company’s shareowners to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company has the ability to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of its common stock. The Board of Directors has the right to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of holders of common stock and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of the Company. There are currently nineteen million authorized and undesignated shares of preferred stock that could be so issued. The Company’s Board of Directors is authorized, without any further shareowner approval, to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock in addition to the currently outstanding 12% Preferred Stock. The Company is authorized to fix and state the voting rights, powers, designations, preferences and relative participation or other special rights of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereon. Preferred stock typically ranks prior to the common stock with respect to dividend rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full, limited, or expanded voting rights. Accordingly, issuances of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock and could negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company has registration rights outstanding, which could have a negative impact on its share price if exercised. In addition to the registration rights granted to one of the institutional purchasers of the 12% Preferred Stock, which has been exercised, pursuant to the Company’s registration rights agreement with Kojaian Ventures, L.L.C. and Kojaian Holdings, LLC, the holders of such rights could, in the future, cause the Company to file additional registration statements with respect to certain of its shares of common stock, which could have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. 24 Table of Contents Future sales of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect its stock price. There are an aggregate of 469,746 Company shares as of December 31, 2009 subject to issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options. Accordingly, these shares will be available for sale in the open market, subject to vesting restrictions, and, in the case of affiliates, certain volume limitations. The sale of shares either pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options or as after the satisfaction of vesting restriction of certain restricted stock could also cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. The Company is obligated to pay quarterly dividends with respect to its Preferred Stock. The Company is obligated to pay quarterly dividends with respect to the 12% Preferred Stock and in the event such dividends are in arrears for six or more quarters, whether or not consecutive, subject to certain limitations, holders representing a majority of shares of Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of all other classes or series of preferred stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to nominate and vote for the election of two additional directors to serve on the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Preferred Stock Directors”), until all unpaid dividends with respect to the Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for payment is set aside for such payment; provided that the election of any such Preferred Stock Directors will not cause the Company to violate the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE (or any other exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company’s securities may be listed or quoted) that requires listed or quoted companies to have a majority of independent directors; and provided further that the Board of Directors will, at no time, include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. The 12% Preferred Stock will rank senior to the Company’s common stock but junior to all of the Company’s liabilities and the Company’s subsidiaries’ liabilities, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, the Company’s assets will be available to pay obligations on the 12% Preferred Stock only after all of the Company’s liabilities have been paid, but prior to any payments are made with respect to the Company’s common stock. In addition, the 12% Preferred Stock effectively ranks junior to all existing and future liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries. The rights of holders of the 12% Preferred Stock to participate in the assets of the Company’s subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will rank junior to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after paying the Company’s liabilities, and the Company’s subsidiaries’ liabilities, to pay amounts due on any or all of the 12% Preferred Stock then outstanding. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of the 12% Preferred Stock, (1) dividends are payable only if and when declared by the Company’s Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board, and (2) as a Delaware corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments only out of legally available assets. Further, the 12% Preferred Stock places no restrictions on the Company’s business or operations or on the Company’s ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions except that a consent of holders representing at least a majority of the 12% Preferred Stock is required to amend the Company’s certificate of incorporation as to the terms of the 12% Preferred Stock or to issue additional 12% Preferred Stock that ranks senior to or, to the extent that 225,000 shares of the 12% Preferred Stock remain outstanding, on a parity with, the 12% Preferred Stock. The market price of the 12% Preferred Stock will be directly affected by the market price of the Company’s common stock, which may be volatile. To the extent that a secondary market for the 12% Preferred Stock develops, the Company believes that the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock will be significantly affected by the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company cannot predict how the shares of its common stock will trade in the 25 Table of Contents future. This may result in greater volatility in the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock than would be expected for non-convertible stock. From the beginning of the year ended December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2009, the reported high and low sales prices for the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $0.25 to a high of $14.50 per share. The market price of the Company’s common stock will likely fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: • the Company’s liquidity risk management, including the Company’s ratings, if any, the Company’s liquidity plan and potential transactions designed to enhance liquidity; • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves the Company; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions, and financings; • additional issuances by the Company of common stock; • additional issuances by the Company of other series or classes of preferred stock; • actions of the Company’s common shareowners, including sales of common stock by shareowners and the Company’s directors and executive officers; • changes in funding markets, including commercial paper, term debt, bank deposits and the asset-backed securitization markets; • changes in confidence in real estate markets and real estate investments; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of the Company’s competitors and real estate-related stocks in general; • government reactions to current economic and market conditions; and • regional, national and global political and economic conditions and other factors. The market price of the Company’s common stock may also be affected by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general and/or real estate stocks in particular, including price and trading fluctuations on the NYSE. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, the Company’s common stock, and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the Company’s operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of the Company’s common stock and, in turn, the 12% Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company expects that the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock will be influenced by yield and interest rates in the capital markets, the Company’s creditworthiness, and the occurrence of events affecting the Company that do not require an adjustment to the conversion rate. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock or the 12% Preferred Stock and may negatively impact the holders’ investment. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. In addition, with the applicable consent of holders of the 12% Preferred Stock, the Company may issue additional preferred stock that ranks senior to, or on parity with, the 12% Preferred Stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock or 12% Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or 12% Preferred Stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. For example, if the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon the 26 Table of Contents Company’s liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Company’s common stock, the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock or the market price of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, each share of 12% Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder thereof into shares of the Company’s common stock. The conversion of some or all of the 12% Preferred Stock will dilute the ownership interest of the Company’s existing common shareowners. Any sales in the public market of the Company’s common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock and the 12% Preferred Stock. In addition, the existence of the Company’s 12% Preferred Stock may encourage short selling or arbitrage trading activity by market participants because the conversion of the Company’s 12% Preferred Stock could depress the price of the Company’s equity securities. As noted above, a decline in the market price of the common stock may negatively impact the market price for the 12% Preferred Stock. An active trading market for the 12% Preferred Stock does not exist and may not develop. The 12% Preferred Stock has no established trading market and is not listed on any securities exchange. Since the securities have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares of 12% Preferred Stock in the secondary market or converting their shares of 12% Preferred Stock into shares of common stock and subsequently seeking to sell those shares of common stock. The Company cannot assure holders that an active trading market in the 12% Preferred Stock will develop or, even if it develops, we cannot assure holders that it will last. In either case the trading price of the 12% Preferred Stock could be adversely affected and the holders’ ability to transfer shares of 12% Preferred Stock will be limited. The Company was advised by the initial purchaser in the offering of the 12% Preferred Stock that it intends to make a market in the shares of our 12% Preferred Stock; however, it is not obligated to do so and may discontinue market-making at any time without notice. The Company cannot assure holders that another firm or person will make a market in the 12% Preferred Stock. The 12% Preferred Stock has not been rated. The 12% Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. This factor may affect the trading price of the 12% Preferred Stock. Holders of the 12% Preferred Stock do not have identical rights as holders of common stock until they acquire the common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to the Company’s common stock. Except for voting and dividend rights, holders of the 12% Preferred Stock have no rights with respect to the common stock until conversion of their 12% Preferred Stock, including rights to respond to tender offers, but investment in the 12% Preferred Stock may be negatively affected by such events. Even though the holders of the 12% Preferred Stock vote on an as-converted basis with holders of the common stock, upon conversion of the 12% Preferred Stock, holders will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of common stock only as to matters for which the record date occurs on or after the applicable conversion date and only to the extent permitted by law, although holders will be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences, or special rights of common stock that may occur as a result of any shareowner action taken before the applicable conversion date. Certain actions, including amendment of our certificate of incorporation, require the additional approval of a majority of holders of the common stock voting as a separate class (excluding shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 12% Preferred Stock). The 12% Preferred Stock is perpetual in nature. The shares of 12% Preferred Stock represent a perpetual interest in the Company and, unlike indebtedness, will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date. Holders have no right to call for the redemption of the 12% Preferred Stock. Therefore, holders should be aware that they may be 27 Table of Contents required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the 12% Preferred Stock for an indefinite period of time. The conversion rate of the 12% Preferred Stock may not be adjusted for all dilutive events that may adversely affect the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock or the common stock issuable upon conversion of the 12% Preferred Stock. The number of shares of the Company’s common stock that holders are entitled to receive upon conversion of a share of 12% Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment for certain events arising from increases in dividends or distributions in common stock, subdivisions, splits, and combinations of the common stock, certain issuances of stock and stock purchase rights, debt, or asset distributions, cash distributions, self-tender offers and exchange offers, and certain other actions by the Company that modify the Company’s capital structure. The Company will not adjust the conversion rate for other events, including the Company’s issuances of common stock in connection with acquisitions or the exercise of options or restricted stock awards granted pursuant to equity plans approved by the Board, or, after the six-month anniversary of November 6, 2009, for cash. There can be no assurance that an event that adversely affects the value of the 12% Preferred Stock, but does not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate, will not occur. Further, if any of these other events adversely affects the market price of the Company’s common stock, it may also adversely affect the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company is not restricted from offering common stock in the future or engaging in other transactions that may dilute the Company’s common stock and the Company may issue additional shares of 12% Preferred Stock, which may dilute the Company’s common stock. A change in control with respect to the Company may not constitute a merger, consolidation or sale of assets or a fundamental change for the purpose of the 12% Preferred Stock. The 12% Preferred Stock contains no covenants or other provisions to afford protection to holders in the event of certain mergers, consolidations or sales of assets with respect to the Company constituting a “change in control” on or after November 15, 2019 except upon the occurrence of certain mergers, consolidations or sales of assets. Furthermore, the limited covenants with respect to a “fundamental change” or “change in control” may not include every change in control event that could cause the market price of the 12% Preferred Stock to decline. The adjustment to conversion rate described under “Description of 12% Preferred Stock — Adjustment to Conversion Rate upon Certain Change in Control Events” will not be applicable on or after November 15, 2014 and the repurchase right of preferred holders described under “— Repurchase at Option of Holders Upon a Fundamental Change” will not be applicable on or after November 15, 2019, and these limitations may have the effect of discouraging third parties from pursuing a change in control of the Company, which may otherwise be in the best interest of the Company’s shareowners. Any change in control with respect to the Company either before or after November 15, 2019 may negatively affect the liquidity, value or volatility of the Company’s common stock, and thus, negatively impact the value of the 12% Preferred Stock. The Company may not have the funds necessary to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock following a fundamental change. Holders of the notes have the right to require the Company to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to November 15, 2019. The Company may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock at such time, and may not have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, the Company’s ability to purchase the 12% Preferred Stock may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements outstanding at such time. Moreover, a failure to repurchase the 12% Preferred Stock may also constitute an event of default, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, any then existing indebtedness, under any indenture, credit agreement or other agreement outstanding at that time, which could further restrict the Company’s ability to make such payments. 28 Table of Contents The adjustment to conversion rate in respect of conversions following certain change in control events may not adequately compensate the holder. If certain change in control events occur prior to November 15, 2014, and a holder converts in connection with such change in control, the Company will, under certain circumstances, pay an adjustment to conversion rate in respect of any conversions of the 12% Preferred Stock that occur during the period beginning on the date notice of such fundamental change is delivered and ending on the change in control conversion date. Although the adjustment to the conversion rate is designed to compensate holders for the lost option value of the holders’ 12% Preferred Stock, it is only an approximation of such lost value and may not adequately compensate the holders for their actual loss. The Company’s obligation to adjust the conversion rate in respect of conversions following certain changes in control may be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness, as applied to such payments. If the Company’s common stock is delisted, the holder’s ability to transfer or sell the 12% Preferred Stock, or common stock upon conversion, may be limited and the market value of the 12% Preferred Stock will be adversely affected. The 12% Preferred Stock does not contain protective provisions in the event that the Company’s common stock is delisted. Since the 12% Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date, holders may be forced to elect between converting their shares of the 12% Preferred Stock into illiquid shares of the Company’s common stock or holding their shares of the 12% Preferred Stock and receiving stated dividends on the stock when, as and if authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors and declared by the Company with no assurance as to ever receiving the liquidation preference of the 12% Preferred Stock. Accordingly, if the Company’s common stock is delisted, the holders’ ability to transfer or sell their shares of the 12% Preferred Stock, or common stock upon conversion, may be limited, and the market value of the 12% Preferred Stock will be adversely affected. Holders of the 12% Preferred Stock may be unable to use the dividends-received deduction. Distributions paid to corporate U.S. holders (as defined herein) of the 12% Preferred Stock (or the Company’s common stock) may be eligible for the dividends-received deduction to the extent the Company has current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $412.1 million and a net loss attributable to Grubb & Ellis Company of $78.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits during future fiscal years for the distributions on the 12% Preferred Stock (or the Company’s common stock) to qualify as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the distributions fail to qualify as dividends, U.S. holders would be unable to use the dividends-received deduction. Instead, distributions would be treated first as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of a U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the 12% Preferred Stock and thereafter as capital gain. If a corporate U.S. holder’s tax basis in the 12% Preferred Stock (or the Company’s common stock) were reduced in this manner, then the amount of gain, if any, recognized by such holder on a subsequent disposition of such stock would be increased and such holder would not be eligible for a dividends-received deduction to offset such gain. Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. Should a property sustain damage or an occupant sustain an injury, the Company may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, co-payments on insured losses or uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss or personal injury, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full damages. In the event of an uninsured loss, the Company could lose some or all of its capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds the Company receives, if any, might not be adequate to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to the property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties in the Company’s programs, the 29 Table of Contents remaining insurance under the applicable policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure the remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than the current policy. A loss at any of these properties or an increase in premium as a result of a loss could decrease the income from or value of properties under management in the Company’s programs, which in turn would reduce the fees the Company receives from these programs. Any decrease or loss in fees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company carries commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to the Company’s programs’ properties. The Company obtains coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that the Company believes are customarily carried for similar properties. The Company cannot assure you, however, that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be insurable on an economic basis or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available. In addition, the Company generally does not obtain insurance against certain risks, such as floods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 