ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a wide range of factors that could materially affect future developments and performance. Because of these factors, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future results. Set forth below and elsewhere in this document are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this document. The most significant factors affecting our business and operations include the following: Business and Operating Risks Our exposure to pending and future asbestos claims and related liabilities, assets, and cash flows are subject to significant uncertainties. ITT, including its subsidiary Goulds Pumps, Inc., has been joined as a defendant in numerous lawsuits and claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with certain products sold or distributed that may have contained asbestos. We expect to be named as defendants in similar actions in the future. We record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be filed over the next 10 years based on a number of key assumptions, including the plaintiffs’ propensity to sue, claim acceptance rates, disease type, settlement values and defense costs. These assumptions are derived from ITT’s recent experience and reflect the Company’s expectations about future claim activities. These assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, the Company may incur additional liabilities in the future. A change in one or more of the inputs used to estimate our asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending claims and those estimated to be filed in the next 10 years. Although it is probable that the Company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next 10 years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. We record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers for the estimated asbestos liabilities. There are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the Company’s insurers. Certain of our primary coverage-in-place agreements are expected to exhaust within the next twelve months, which may result in higher net cash outflows until excess carriers begin accepting claims for reimbursement. Performance by our insurers could differ from the assumptions underlying the recognized asset and could result in lower collections of receivables than are currently expected to reduce the Company’s asbestos costs. Due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next 10 years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. Additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next 10 years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Many uncertainties exist surrounding asbestos litigation, and the Company will continue to evaluate its estimated asbestos-related liability and corresponding estimated insurance reimbursement as well as the underlying assumptions and process used to derive these amounts. Changes in estimates related to these uncertainties may result in increases or decreases to the net asbestos liability, particularly if the quality or number of claims or settlement or defense costs change significantly, or if there are significant developments in the trend of case law or court procedures, or if legislation or another alternative solution is implemented; however, the Company is currently unable to estimate such future changes. Although the resolution of asbestos claims takes many years, the effect of changes in our estimates related to our pending or estimated future claims in any given period could be material to our financial statements. In addition, as part of the Distribution, ITT indemnified Exelis and Xylem with respect to asserted and unasserted asbestos claims that relate to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos in products manufactured, repaired or sold prior to the Distribution Date, subject to limited exceptions. Our operating results and our ability to maintain liquidity or procure capital may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and capital market conditions associated with global sales and operations and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Adverse conditions in the markets we serve could adversely affect demand for our products. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. Important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of the global economy and our customers’ confidence in local and global macroeconomic conditions, industrial spending, interest rates, availability of commercial financing for our customers and unemployment rates. We serve a diverse mix of customers in global infrastructure industries which can be volatile. The markets in which our business operates include automotive, aerospace, oil & gas, chemical and defense, each of which is impacted by specific industry and general economic cycles. Our revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future and can be negatively impacted by volatility in the end markets we serve. We have 13 Table of Contents undertaken measures to reduce the impact of this volatility through diversification of markets we serve and expansion of geographic regions in which we operate. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in financial markets or downturns in macroeconomic conditions in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which the Company operates or be subject to adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Our international operations, including sales of U.S. exports, comprise a growing portion of our operations and are a strategic focus for continued future growth. Our strategy calls for increasing sales in overseas markets, including emerging growth markets such as Central and South America, China, India and the Middle East. In 2012, approximately 61.0% of our total sales were to customers operating outside of the United States. Both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent to doing business outside the United States. These risks include the following: ¡ Possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; ¡ Currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; ¡ Potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; ¡ The disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; ¡ Our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions; and ¡ Changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements. Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial difficulties related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries and the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further we may experience material impacts on our financial statements. Adverse changes to financial conditions could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and customers. Restrictive credit markets may also result in customers extending terms for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased risk of default. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our insurers and customers and evaluate their ability to service their obligations to us. A tightening of credit markets may reduce funds available to our customers to pay for or buy our products and services for an unknown, but perhaps lengthy, period. As it relates to our customers’ ability to pay for products and services, we have not experienced any significant negative consequences as a result of current economic conditions. Should market conditions deteriorate, this may adversely affect our ability to manage inventory levels and maintain current levels of profitability. If, for any reason, we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, South Korean Won, Hong Kong Dollar, Mexican Peso, British Pound, Czech Koruna, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. As we continue to grow our business internationally, our operating results could be affected by the relative strength of the European, Asian and developing economies and the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. In addition to the general risks that we face outside the U.S., we now conduct more of our operations in emerging growth markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. In addition, emerging growth markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of our products, and risks of political instability. A substantial portion of our earnings is generated by our foreign subsidiaries and repatriation of those earnings to the U.S. may be inefficient from a tax perspective. Any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing, or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable profit margins. 14 Table of Contents Failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. We provide products and services into competitive markets. We believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. In order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. Further, our ability to realize financial benefits from Six Sigma and Lean projects may not be able to mitigate fully or in part these manufacturing and operating cost increases and, as a result, could negatively impact our profitability. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services effectively, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party distributors and resellers. Successfully managing the interaction of our distributors and resellers is a complex process as we sell a broad mix of products through a network of over 500 distributors and resellers. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and profit margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and profit margins. In addition, changes to or from a distribution model could introduce additional complexity to the sales and inventory management processes and could cause disruptions to customer service or create channel conflicts. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to the loss of a distributor, channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, or the loss or deterioration of any distribution or reseller arrangement. In particular, two distributors account for approximately 60% of Motion Technologies revenues and approximately 16% of consolidated ITT revenue. Our contract with this distributor consists of several subcontracts which are scheduled to expire at various times between 2014 and 2018. Moreover, some of our distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness. Considerable trade receivables are outstanding with our distribution partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Further, we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and potential pricing issues. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance on indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and potential pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices or write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. Quality problems with our manufacturing processes or finished goods could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share. We manufacture key components that are integral to the operation of systems and manufacturing processes in the energy, transportation and industrial markets. Our products provide enabling functionality for applications where reliability and performance are critically important to our customers and the users of their products. As such, quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Aside from specific customer standards, our success in part depends on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share. 15 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of products for the markets we serve. In addition, many of the devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be used in harsh environments for long periods of time where the cost of failure is high. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, an end user of our products. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal of such products from the marketplace and claims regarding costs associated therewith. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. Our business could be adversely affected by raw material price volatility and the inability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements. Our business relies on third-party suppliers for raw materials, components, and contract manufacturing services to produce our products. The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component parts suppliers and the supply of castings, motors, and other critical components could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Due to pricing pressure or other factors, the Company may not be able to pass along increased raw material and components parts prices to its customers in the form of price increases or its ability to do so could be delayed. Consequently, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such materials are readily available. In some instances we depend on a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to a limited number of suppliers. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including production interruptions at suppliers, capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, the ability of suppliers to meet regulatory requirements, and suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers. Any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with sufficient quality and flow of materials, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Portfolio management strategies for growth, including cost-saving initiatives, may not meet expectations. We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, a level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of these business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including that an acquired business could under-perform relative to our expectations, the failure to realize expected synergies, integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems, the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities, potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired company that could impact us on a consolidated basis, diversion of management attention from other businesses, loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, and customer dissatisfaction or performance. Our portfolio reviews also include the potential for cost-saving initiatives through restructuring, realignment and other initiatives. We strive for and expect to achieve cost savings in connection with certain initiatives, including: (i) manufacturing process and supply chain rationalization; (ii) streamlining redundant administrative overhead and support activities; and (iii) restructuring and repositioning organizations. Cost savings expectations are inherently estimates that are difficult to predict and are necessarily speculative in nature, and we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve expected, or any, actual cost savings. Our restructuring activities may place substantial demands on our management, which could lead to the diversion of management’s attention from other business priorities and result in a reduced customer focus. Changes in our effective tax rates as a result of changes in the realizability of our deferred tax assets, the geographic mix of earnings, tax examinations or disputes, tax authority rulings, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us may adversely affect our financial results. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. We exercise significant judgment in calculating our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. 16 Table of Contents Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. Given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: ¡ Decisions to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. income taxes; ¡ Changes in the geographic mix of our profits among jurisdictions with differing statutory income tax rates; ¡ Sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; ¡ Changes in tax laws applicable to us; ¡ The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and ¡ Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The amount of income taxes and other taxes we have paid are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts paid or reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments. We are currently under examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations in the future. The tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. Failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material adverse effect on our financial statements. The level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. A portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). We may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to postretirement benefit plans as a result of macroeconomic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. The cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods, which can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets and discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses. Management develops each assumption using relevant Company experience in conjunction with market-related data. Our liquidity, cash flows and financial statements could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, volatility in the financial markets, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. We make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. The macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreements, may influence future funding requirements. A significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans could require increased funding contributions and could adversely affect our financial statements. Future minimum funding requirements will depend primarily on the return on plan assets and discount rate. Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our U.S. pension plans, the level of future minimum contributions could be material. Failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering and other key personnel. The ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. We will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. A failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. We rely on our information systems in our operations. Security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our information system structure could make it more difficult to cost-effectively implement changes. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Even the most well-protected information systems are vulnerable to internal and external security breaches including those by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The unavailability of our information systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing an adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial statements. Our information systems infrastructure is centralized, but our information system applications are both centralized and decentralized. The centralized infrastructure presents a risk in that a potential security breach could have a company-wide impact. The decentralized applications could result in significant replacement costs were the Company to decide to replace a number of the independent operating systems or consolidate operating systems. The inter-relationship of information systems also presents an additional risk when upgrading or replacing information systems. 17 Table of Contents Long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. At December 31, 2012, our long-lived assets, representing fixed assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, were approximately $1,147.8, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 33.9% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review the carrying value of finite-lived tangible and intangible assets for impairment when impairment indicators arise. We estimate the fair value of reporting units used in the goodwill impairment test and indefinite-lived intangible assets using an income approach, and as a result the fair value measurements depend on revenue growth rates, future operating margin assumptions, risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions, and the identification of appropriate market comparable data. Because of the significance of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Other Risks, Including Litigation and Regulatory Risk We are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to product and other matters. We are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Any violations or failure to comply with securities laws, trade or tax rules or similar regulations could create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. Some of these proceedings allege damages relating to product liability, personal injury claims, employment and employee benefit matters and commercial or contractual disputes, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. Additionally, we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. Changes in environmental laws or regulations, the discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, or the failure of a potentially responsible party to perform may adversely affect our financial results. We could be affected by changes in environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to vapor intrusion or climate change concerns. Environmental laws and regulations allow for the assessment of substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. Accruals for environmental liabilities are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law and existing technologies. Our estimated liability is undiscounted and is reduced to reflect the participation of other potentially responsible parties in those instances where it is probable that such parties are legally responsible and financially capable of paying their respective share of the relevant costs. Such estimates are subject to change and may be affected by many factors, such as new information about a site, evolving scientific knowledge about risk associated with any contamination involved, developments affecting remediation technology, and enforcement by regulatory authorities. We record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers for the estimated environmental liabilities. There are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of environmental-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, and the continued solvency of the Company’s insurers. Performance by our insurers could differ from the assumptions underlying the recognized asset and could result in lower collections of receivables than are currently expected. Developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other potentially responsible parties could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. 18 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation, as well as export controls and trade sanctions, could result in fines or criminal penalties. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, and the U.S. Department of Commerce. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial position. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. The Distribution may expose us to potential liabilities. In connection with the Distribution we may be exposed to potential liabilities. As part of the Distribution Agreement, ITT, Exelis, and Xylem indemnified each other with respect to such parties’ assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the Distribution Agreement and breaches of the Distribution Agreement or related spin agreements. There can be no assurance that the indemnity from Exelis and Xylem will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities, or that each of Exelis and Xylem will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that each of Exelis and Xylem has agreed to assume. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Exelis and Xylem any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, performance on indemnities that we provided Exelis and Xylem may be significant. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial position. We may be responsible for U.S. Federal income tax liabilities that relate to the Distribution. In connection with the Distribution, we received an U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Ruling stating that ITT and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain, or loss for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Distribution. The IRS Ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, is based on certain factual statements and representations. If any such factual statements or representations were incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the IRS Ruling was based are materially different from the facts at the time of the Distribution, the IRS could modify or revoke the IRS Ruling retroactively. Certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the IRS Ruling are addressed in an opinion of counsel delivered in connection with the Distribution. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Distribution that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. Like the IRS Ruling, the opinion is based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter counsel’s conclusions. If all or a portion of the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction because any of the factual statements or representations in the IRS Ruling or the legal opinion are incomplete or untrue, or because the facts upon which the IRS Ruling is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the Distribution, ITT would recognize a substantial gain for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. In such case, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the ITT consolidated group at the time of the Distribution would be severally liable for the resulting entire amount of any U.S. Federal income tax liability. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, the Distribution will be taxable to ITT (but not to ITT shareholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of ITT, Exelis or Xylem, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of any such corporation, and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. Any acquisition of ITT, Exelis or Xylem common stock within two years before or after the Distribution (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. The tax liability resulting from the application of Section 355(e) would be substantial. In addition, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the ITT consolidated group at the time of the Distribution would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. Federal income tax liability. Each of Exelis and Xylem has agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the Distribution to be taxable to ITT, including under Section 355(e). Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution, ITT, Exelis and Xylem have agreed to indemnify each other for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and ITT, Exelis and Xylem have agreed to indemnify each other for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by them. These obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. 19 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, the articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, the articles of incorporation and by-laws, among other things, do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us as well as certain restrictions on the voting rights of “control shares” of an “issuing public corporation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 