ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. We believe the risks discussed below are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by ITT are listed below. • General global economic conditions, particularly in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products, including declines in consumer spending, which could have a negative impact on the results of all of our businesses. • We manufacture and sell products used in cyclical businesses including the construction, defense, mining and minerals, transportation, automotive and aerospace industries. Downturns in these industries could adversely affect our businesses. • Our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to integrate acquisitions or implement footprint rationalization initiatives. • Competitive pressures in all our businesses include product capability, technological innovation, cycle time, price, quality and the reliability of services we offer. In our Fluid Technology business segment, competition includes public bidding on many contracts. Our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted as a result of competition. • Weather conditions including drought, natural disasters, and excessive rains may negatively affect our Fluid Technology and Motion & Flow Control business segments. • Industry overcapacity in the pump and valve market could have an adverse impact on the results of our Fluid Technology business segment. • Decrease in demand for replacement parts and services would adversely affect our Fluid Technology and Motion & Flow Control business segments. • Our Fluid Technology business segment depends upon the ability of municipal markets to fund projects involving our products and services. A significant decline or delay in this funding would have an adverse effect on the results of our business. • Economic downturns in automotive, aerospace and marine and leisure markets could negatively affect our Motion & Flow Control businesses segment. • Because 94% of our Defense Electronics & Services sales are to the U.S. government, changes in the portion of the U.S. defense budget devoted to products and services of the types of products provided by ITT, and our present ability to receive awards of U.S. government contracts, would adversely impact our business. • Many of our government contracts are subject to profit limitations, which limit our upside potential on a per contract basis, and all are subject to termination by our customers. Termination of key government contracts or a significant number of government contracts would have a negative impact on our business. • Many Defense Electronics & Services contracts are subject to security and facility clearances, as well as export licenses, which, if withdrawn, restricted or made unavailable, would adversely affect our business. • Changes in government contracting regulations, and related governmental investigations could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and could have a negative effect on our brand name and on our ability to win new business. • Employment and pension matters, including changes in laws relating to pension reform, could increase our costs of operations. • Interest and foreign currency exchange rate trends and fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We engage in hedging strategies, but it is not possible to hedge against all eventualities. • The commodities, supplies and raw materials that we use in our operations may not be available or may only be available at increased prices, which would have a negative effect on our results of operations. • Our liability for actual or alleged environmental contamination, claims and concerns may exceed our reserves, which would negatively impact our results of operations. • Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. • Personal injury claims against us may exceed our reserves, which would negatively impact our results of operations. • Unanticipated changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities could negatively affect our profitability. • Oil and geopolitical risks including global terrorism could adversely affect all our businesses. 11 Table of Contents • As a global business, we are subject to the laws of foreign countries and U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violations of which could create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. • As a result of a material weakness identified in income tax accounting controls, there is a possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. These risk factors are discussed in more detail under the captions “BUSINESS — Competition; — Exposure to Currency Fluctuations; — Cyclicality; — Governmental Regulations and Related Matters; — Environmental Matters; — Raw Materials; — Intellectual Property” — “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” and “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 