ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. We believe the risks discussed below are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions, particularly in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products, may significantly and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and in foreign markets in which we operate could substantially affect our sales and profitability. Economic activity in the United States and throughout much of the world has undergone a sudden, sharp economic downturn following the recent housing downturn and subprime lending collapse. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Consumer confidence and spending are down significantly. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective or such effects may be delayed. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Nonetheless, continuation or further worsening of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. Recent distress in the financial markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources. Continued market deterioration could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and 9 Table of Contents financial institutions. If for any reason we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services for an unknown, but perhaps lengthy, period. Restrictive credit markets may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases from us even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. Our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to integrate acquisitions; our acquisitions could cause financial difficulties. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. Because of restricted credit markets, our ability to acquire new businesses may be impeded. Further, although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of these business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: n diversion of management attention from other businesses; n integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems; n potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired company that could impact us on a consolidated basis; n the failure to realize expected synergies; n the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and n the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. Our integration activities may place substantial demands on our management, operational resources and financial internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, any acquired business could under-perform relative to our expectations. If the fair value of any of our reporting units is insufficient to recover the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangibles of the respective reporting unit, a material non-cash charge to earnings could result. We account for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142)”. SFAS 142 states that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are instead reviewed for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). We conduct annual impairment testing to determine if we will be able to recover all or a portion of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. In addition, we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment more frequently if impairment indicators arise. If the fair value is insufficient to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, we may be required to record a material non-cash charge to earnings. Consistent with the requirements of SFAS 142, the fair values of our reporting units generally are based on discounted cash flow projections that are believed to be reasonable under current and forecasted circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of the reported net assets of our reporting units. Any significant change in market conditions and estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. Our Fluid Technology and Motion & Flow Control business segments are subject to certain industry risks, which could have adverse effects on the results of our operations. Many of the businesses in which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. Certain businesses are subject to industry cycles, including but not limited to the residential and commercial real estate, construction, oil and gas, mining and minerals, transportation, automotive and aerospace industries. Downturns in these industries could adversely affect portions of our businesses. 10 Table of Contents Our Fluid Technology business segment depends upon the ability of municipal markets to fund projects involving our products and services. A significant decline or delay in this funding would have an adverse effect on the results of our business. Industry overcapacity in the pump and valve market could have an adverse impact on the results of our Fluid Technology business segment. Weather conditions including drought, natural disasters, and excessive rains may negatively affect our Fluid Technology and Motion & Flow Control business segments. Decrease in demand for replacement parts and services would adversely affect our Fluid Technology and Motion & Flow Control business segments. Our Defense Electronics & Services business segment is subject to certain risks, including defense budgets and government contract requirements and regulations, which could have adverse effects on the results of our operations. Because 94% of our Defense Electronics & Services sales and revenues are to the U.S. Government, changes in the portion of the U.S. Defense budget devoted to products and services of the types of products provided by ITT, and our present ability to receive awards of U.S. Government contracts, could adversely impact our business. This includes U.S. Defense programs impacted as a result of program evaluations to be conducted in 2009 under the new U.S. Administration. Our Defense Electronics & Services business segment records billions of dollars of orders on an annual basis, and we have anticipated that our overall performance will benefit from sales and revenues to certain international markets. Variability of timing and size of certain key orders could negatively impact the performance of these businesses. Many of our government contracts are subject to profit limitations, which limit our upside potential on a per contract basis, and all are subject to termination by our customers. Termination of key government contracts or a significant number of government contracts would have a negative impact on our business. Many Defense Electronics & Services contracts are subject to security and facility clearances, as well as export licenses, which, if withdrawn, restricted or made unavailable, would adversely affect our business. Changes in government contracting regulations, and related governmental investigations could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and could have a negative effect on our brand name and on our ability to win new business. Our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted as a result of competition. We operate in highly competitive industries. Our failure to compete effectively could harm our business. Competitive pressures in all our businesses include product capability, technological innovation, cycle time, price, quality and the reliability of services we offer. In our Defense Electronics & Services and Fluid Technology business segments, competition includes public bidding on many contracts. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers. We obtain materials from third-party suppliers. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to execute our restructuring actions or other cost-saving initiatives. Our restructuring activities may place substantial demands on our management, which could lead to the diversion of management’s attention from other business priorities and lack of customer focus. In addition, we strive for and expect to achieve cost savings in connection with certain initiatives, including: (i) manufacturing process and supply chain rationalization; (ii) streamlining redundant administrative overhead and support activities; and (iii) restructuring and repositioning organizations. Cost savings expectations are inherently estimates that are difficult to predict and are necessarily speculative in nature, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve expected, or any, cost savings. Interest and foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to the risks associated with changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and commodity prices. From time to time, we engage in hedging strategies to limit the risks from such fluctuations, but it is not possible to hedge against all eventualities. We are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, 11 Table of Contents including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. We are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violations of which could create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other governmental policies may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. Some of these proceedings allege damages relating to environmental liabilities, product liability, personal injury claims, employment and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. Additionally, we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. Unanticipated changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities resulting from changes to tax laws among other factors could negatively affect our profitability. Changes in fair value of our benefit plan assets and other factors may have a material adverse effect on the valuation of pension plan obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost. A substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other employee-related benefit plans. The cost of our these plans is incurred over long periods of time and involve various factors and uncertainties during those periods of time, including the value of plan assets, the expected rates of return on plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations and trends for future costs. In addition, funding requirements for employee benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. Financial market volatility during the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in substantial a decline in the fair market value of our employee pension plan assets. This decline translated into a significant reduction in our shareholders’ equity and a comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. Continued deterioration in this asset pool or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, including material declines in the fair value of our pension plan assets, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and could require us to make significant funding contributions. We face heightened legal challenges with respect to intellectual property. We have developed and actively pursue developing proprietary technology in the industries in which we operate, and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents to protect such technology. In doing so, we incur ongoing costs to enforce and defend our intellectual property. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our key employees. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to develop key employee succession plans. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. While we believe this practice has catalyzed our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers’ needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized environment. In addition, it means that “company-wide” business initiatives, such as the integration of information technology systems, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risk factors are discussed in more detail under the captions “BUSINESS – Competition; – Exposure to Currency Fluctuations; – Cyclicality; – Governmental Regulations and Related Matters; – Environmental Matters; – Raw Materials; – Intellectual Property” – “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” and “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 