Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our common stock. We believe the risks discussed below are currently the most significant. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Spinoff Transactions The proposed spinoffs of our water and defense businesses are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, may not achieve the intended results, and may present difficulties that could have an adverse effect on us. We expect to file a Registration Statement on Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with respect to the distribution to our stockholders of all of the shares of common stock of two of our subsidiaries that would hold, directly or indirectly, the assets and liabilities for our water-related and defense-related businesses, respectively. Completion of the spinoff transactions will be contingent upon the approval of our Board of Directors, a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the effectiveness of each of the Registration Statements on Form 10 and other conditions. For these and other reasons, the spinoff transactions may not be completed or may not be completed prior to the end of the year. Additionally, execution of the proposed spinoff transactions may require significant time and attention from management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. Our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spinoff transactions. Further, if the spinoff transactions are completed, each of these transactions may not achieve the intended results. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The spinoff transactions could result in substantial tax liability. We will request a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each of the spinoff transactions and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Our receipt of the private letter ruling will be a condition to the completion of the spinoffs. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution such as the spinoff satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations by us that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. The spinoffs will also be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of outside counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spinoffs and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. The opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spinoff companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge 13 Table of Contents the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, the spinoff transactions were determined to be a taxable transaction, each U.S. holder of our common stock who receives shares of the spinoff companies in the spinoff transactions would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the spinoff company received. That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, if certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, the spinoff companies would be treated as if they had each sold part of their respective assets (which will be retained by us) in a taxable sale for fair market value and we would be treated as receiving such assets from the spinoff companies as a taxable dividend. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we will determine which company will be responsible for any taxes imposed by the spinoff transactions. If the spinoff transactions are completed, our operational and financial profile will change and we will be a smaller, less diversified company than ITT’s current operations. If consummated, the proposed spinoff transactions will result in ITT being a smaller, less diversified company than we currently are with a narrower business focus than we currently have. We will have a more limited business with greater concentration in the industrial products market and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows will diminish. As such, it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. Our operations may also be impacted by a limited ability to attract new employees in a timely manner. If the proposed spinoff transactions are consummated, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spinoffs. Investors holding our common stock may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that operates in multiple markets with a diversified commercial and defense portfolio. If the proposed spinoff transactions are consummated, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the engineered industrial products industry. These changes may not match some holders’ investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease following the consummation of the proposed spinoff. Business and Operating Risks We are dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our revenue. Approximately 46% of our 2010 revenue was derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. Government, including the Department of Defense (DoD), and our results are therefore affected by, among other things, the annual federal budget, appropriations made to defense programs, spending levels and the timing of appropriations for defense programs. DoD budget and priorities impacting the programs can be affected by external threats to our national security, funding for on-going operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, future priorities of the current presidential administration, and the overall health of the U.S. and world economies. Our future results may be impacted by our ability to receive awards under new and on-going defense programs, as well as other U.S. Government programs, our ability to develop and market products and services under these programs, as well as the variability of timing and size of certain key orders. The U.S. Government has the ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default; therefore, our future results could be materially impacted by the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the U.S. Government. Since many of our government contracts are fixed-price, increased costs which cannot be justified as an increase to the contract value exposes the risk of reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. In addition, numerous contracts are subject to security and facility clearances, as well as export licenses, which, if withdrawn, restricted or made unavailable, would adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. Government contracting regulations, and related governmental investigations could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and could have a negative effect on our brand name and on our ability to win new business. Our exposure to pending and future asbestos claims and related assets, liabilities, and cash flows are subject to significant uncertainties, which could have 14 Table of Contents adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITT, including its subsidiary Goulds Pumps, Inc., has been joined as a defendant in numerous lawsuits and claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with certain products sold or distributed that may have contained asbestos. We expect to be named as defendants in similar actions in the future. We record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be received over the next ten years based on a number of key assumptions, including the plaintiffs’ propensity to sue, claim acceptance rates, disease type, settlement values and defense costs. These assumptions are derived from ITT’s recent experience and reflect the Company’s expectations about future claim activities. These assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, the Company may incur additional liabilities in the future. A change in one or more of the inputs used to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending claims and those estimated to be filed in the next 10 years. Although it is probable that the Company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next 10 years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. We record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. There are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the Company’s insurers or other responsible parties. The assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as such, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables or cash flows expected to reduce the Company’s asbestos costs. Due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next 10 years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. Additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next 10 years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. A substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). We may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. The cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods, which can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, rates of future compensation increases, and trends for future medical costs. Management develops each assumption using relevant Company experience in conjunction with market-related data. Our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. We make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. The macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or tax authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. A significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government. As a result, we have sought and expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the DoD for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. We rely on our information systems in our operations. Security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Even the most well-protected information systems are vulnerable to internal and external security breaches including by those computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The unavailability of the information systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and 15 Table of Contents increased overhead costs, causing an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our systems are decentralized, which presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would be in a more centralized environment. In addition, “company-wide” business initiatives, such as the integration of information technology systems, or the formation of a technology system impacting different parts of our business, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by raw material price volatility and the inability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements. Our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. We are exposed to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other Risks, including Litigation and Regulatory Risk The effects of changes in worldwide economic and capital markets conditions may significantly affect our revenue, profitability, results of operations and our ability to maintain liquidity or procure capital. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond its control, such as disruptions in financial markets or downturns in economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which the Company operates; social, political or labor conditions in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. If, for any reason, we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Adverse changes to financial conditions could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and financial institutions and other third parties. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services for an unknown, but perhaps lengthy, period. Restrictive credit markets may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce consumption even in a stable marketplace. Many of the businesses in which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. Certain businesses are subject to industry cycles, including but not limited to the residential and commercial real estate, construction, oil and gas, mining and minerals, transportation, automotive and aerospace industries. Downturns in these industries could adversely affect portions of our businesses. We are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. We are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the United States, any violations of which could create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. Some of these proceedings allege damages relating to environmental liabilities, product liability, personal injury claims, employment and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. Additionally, we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. 16 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities resulting from changes to tax laws among other factors could negatively affect our profitability. Results from our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in local government regulations. Our international operations, including sales of U.S. exports, comprise a growing portion of our operations and are a strategic focus for continued future growth. Our strategy calls for increasing sales to operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as Central and South America, China, India and the Middle East. In 2010, approximately 34% of our total sales were to customers operating outside of the United States. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions, changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions and maintaining the safety of our employees. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing, or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. As we continue to grow our business internationally, our operating results could be affected by the relative strength of the European, Asian and developing economies and the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). This legislation affects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and will subject us to additional federal regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act will require the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other federal agencies to enact numerous new rules, many of which may not be implemented for several months or years. We cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how the Dodd-Frank Act and such regulations will impact the cost of compliance for a public company. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act and the resulting rule proposals and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires companies in the mining industry to disclose in their periodic reports filed with the SEC substantial additional information about safety issues relating to their mining operations. The mining industry is already subject to stringent safety and health standards and recent mining accidents in West Virginia and abroad have received international attention and have led to responses at the state and national levels that have resulted in increased scrutiny of mining operations, particularly underground mining operations. This heightened scrutiny could generate negative publicity for the mining industry, increase the cost of compliance with mining regulations or result in the passage of new laws and regulations, any of which could negatively affect our business results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 