Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business” and “—Risks Relating to Our Industry.” TRADEMARKS We have obtained U.S. federal registrations for the following trademarks: • Image • Image Entertainment • the Image Entertainment logo • Image Music Group • the Egami Media logo • Image Entertainment Japan We have also filed a U.S. federal trademark application for “Home Vision Entertainment.” Our only foreign trademark is a Japanese trademark for Image Entertainment Japan. It is our policy to protect and defend our trademark rights. EMPLOYEES As of June 1, 2007, we had 159 full-time employees and one part-time employee employed by us (including Egami). Within the next several months, we will be closing our Las Vegas distribution facility, which will decrease our headcount to 124 full-time employees. Nine of our employees, including all of our executive officers, are covered by employment agreements, with the remainder being at-will employees. SEASONALITY Our Results of Operations Fluctuate Based on Seasonality and Variability. We have generally experienced higher sales of DVDs and CDs in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31 due to increased consumer spending associated with the year-end holidays. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results of any future periods. In addition to seasonality issues, other factors have contributed to variability in our DVD and CD net revenues on a quarterly basis. These factors include: • the popularity of exclusive titles in release during the quarter • timing of delivery or non-delivery of DVD or CD content or rights clearances by our content providers • our marketing and promotional activities • our rights and distribution activities • the availability of retailer shelf-space • the level of retailer open to buy dollars • the extension, termination or non-renewal of existing license and distribution rights • general economic changes affecting the buying habits of our customers, particularly those changes affecting consumer demand for home entertainment hardware, packaged media and digital content ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. 20 Image Entertainment, Inc. Risks Relating to Our Business The Residual Effects of the Prolonged Proxy Contest with Our Former Second-Largest Shareholder and Our Special Committee’s Strategic Process May Adversely Affect Our Retail Sales. As a result of the proxy contest with our former second-largest shareholder, Lions Gate, and our special committee’s strategic process, retail sales may be adversely affected due to retail buyers’ uncertainty regarding our future. Consequently, retail buyers may further reduce their new purchases and existing inventories of our programming in order to address this uncertainty and this may have negative result on our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to persuade our retail buyers of our ability to operate independently, or that our retail buyers will increase their purchases of our programming in the future. The Transitioning of Our Warehousing and Distribution Services to Sonopress May Disrupt or Delay Our Business Activities. We are currently in the process of transitioning all of our warehousing and distribution services to Sonopress’ facility in Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin. Although we have an existing relationship with Sonopress, who replicates our DVDs, and although Sonopress has hired key people from our previous replicator who were already very familiar with our company and business, distribution is still a new business initiative for Sonopress. Accordingly, there may be delays and inefficiencies as they enter into this sector. Additionally, as with any major transition, there may be delays and inefficiencies inherent within the transitioning process. Any failure of Sonopress to warehouse and distribute our products in a timely manner and with the same consistent quantity and quality that we and our customers have come to expect, may adversely affect our revenues and profits. We Have a High Concentration of Sales to Relatively Few Customers Which May Result In Significant Uncollectible Accounts Receivable Exposure. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Amazon.com, Inc., AEC One Stop Group, and Anderson Merchandisers (who supplies Wal-Mart) accounted for 12%, 12% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 11% of our net revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Anderson Merchandisers, Best Buy and AEC One Stop Group accounted for approximately 17%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. At March 31, 2007, AEC One Stop Group and Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 20% and 17%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. At March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers and AEC One Stop accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. Additionally, our top five customers accounted for over 42% of our fiscal 2007 net revenues. Any combination of these customers filing for bankruptcy or significantly reducing their purchases of our programming would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our top 25 customers accounted for approximately 82% of our fiscal 2007 net revenues. We are not an exclusive supplier to any of our retail customers, and there is no guarantee that we will continue recognizing significant revenue from sales to any particular customer. If we are unable to maintain the sale of our titles at their current levels to any these five customers, and are unable to find other customers to replace these sales, there would be a negative impact on our revenues and future profitability. In addition, we face credit exposure from our retail customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. On August 20, 2006, our long-term customer MTS, Inc., parent of Tower Records, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. We estimated our net expense relating to the ultimate uncollectible accounts receivables from Tower and recorded a net charge of $432,000. Our net revenues with Tower for the six months ended September 30, 2006, were $987,000, or 2.2% of overall net revenues. Our net revenues with Tower for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, were $4.3 million, or 3.9% of our overall net revenues for the year. Tower represents the second of our significant retail customers to recently file for bankruptcy. Musicland Stores filed bankruptcy in January 2006 and we took a net charge to expense of $1.6 million. With a high concentration of sales to relatively few customers, we cannot assure you that our other retail customers will not experience financial difficulties leading to uncollectible accounts receivable. Our Recent Layoff May Disrupt or Delay Our Business Activities. On November 9, 2006, we eliminated 29 positions, including our UK office, and lost six employees through attrition, representing approximately 17% of our total personnel. Although we have reassigned the duties associated with these eliminated positions to other personnel, inefficiencies related to task unfamiliarity, heavier workloads, loss of knowledge and unfilled gaps may arise, especially if we are unable to effectively manage and implement the transition. Any such inefficiency may cause disruption or delay in our business activities. Relativity Media’s Failure to Deliver the Expected Number or Quality of Motion Pictures May Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not control the timing or manner in which Relativity Media will finance, produce and deliver programs to us. Relativity Media’s decisions regarding the selection, delivery and timing of release of theatrical and direct-to-video motion picture titles will have a significant effect on our future revenues. We also do not control the theatrical distributors’ level of promotion of major motion pictures, and domestic box office performance is likely to affect the film’s subsequent performance in home video. Any decision by producers or theatrical distributors not to deliver, distribute or adequately promote films, or to promote our competitors’ motion pictures to a greater extent than they promote ours, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Image Entertainment, Inc. 21 In addition, due to the substantially higher projected revenues from home video distribution of theatrical motion pictures, our distribution costs for each film will be greater, thus exposing us to greater risk in the event that any or all of the pictures do not sell as well as projected. Our success depends on the commercial success of motion pictures which is unpredictable, and failure to achieve projected sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to Effectively Manage Any Potential Future Growth from the Relativity Media Agreement or the Merger with BTP, or Both, May Adversely Affect Our Business. We will face substantial challenges in expanding our distribution capabilities to adequately meet the anticipated increase in our average sales per title and our overall sales as a result of major motion pictures to be delivered to us for home video and digital distribution over the ten-year term of our agreement with Relativity Media, and as a result of our expected merger with BTP. Expanding to meet these needs could require us to incur significant costs and cause the diversion of management’s time and resources. We may not handle the expansion effectively and efficiently, it may be unsuccessful or take longer than anticipated, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction, which could result in write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will be financially responsible for the funding of post production, development of ancillary materials, package design, disc replication, marketing and advertising and distribution costs for each of the Relativity Media and BTP-controlled titles. We may require increased funding to meet our increased requirements, which we may not be able to obtain in sufficient time, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to grow, maintain and expand our distribution of motion pictures and fund increased operating expenses may depend upon our ability to obtain funds through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in film projects or other assets. If we do not have access to financing, and if other funding does not become available on terms acceptable to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure of Our Strategic Alliances Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Business. We have co-produced motion pictures with Dark Horse, Graymark, Amicus and Sisters Wooster, Inc., and, should we have adequate capital resources, we plan to continue our strategy of developing key alliances with other third party content producers. We will rely on our co-producers to develop and produce films. Particularly when produced by independent filmmakers, each film is a separate business venture with its own management, employees, equipment and budgetary requirements. There are substantial risks associated with film production, including contract problems with, or disability of, directors, actors and other key artistic and technical personnel, weather and other delays, damage to sets, equipment or film, and the inability of production personnel to comply with budgetary or scheduling requirements. Such problems could materially increase the cost of production, increase the amount of time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues, or cause the project to be abandoned at any stage if further expenditures do not appear commercially feasible. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our strategic alliances, and any failure of our present and future alliances to produce commercially viable content at an acceptable cost could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to find further desirable strategic alliances as we continue pursuing new co-production deals and similar relationships, or have sufficient capital to fund them. We Have a High Concentration of Sales From Relatively Few Titles. Our top five fiscal 2007 new release exclusive titles Jeff Dunham: Arguing with Myself DVD and CD, Katt Williams Live DVD and CD, the original Twilight Zone TV series: Complete Definitive Collection DVD, Yanni Live: The Concert Event DVD and CD and Criterion’s Dazed and Confused DVD accounted for approximately 11% of our fiscal 2007 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2007 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 17% of our fiscal 2007 net revenues. Although catalogue sales of these titles continue to be relatively strong, sales for these titles nevertheless have decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire. Net revenues from new release DVD titles, where a new release title is defined as released during fiscal 2007, accounted for approximately 58% of fiscal 2007 net DVD revenues and net revenues from catalogue DVD titles, where catalogue is defined as a title first released in a previous fiscal year, accounted for approximately 42% of fiscal 2007 net DVD revenues. Revenues from new release DVD titles accounted for approximately 51% and 65% of fiscal 2006 and 2005 net DVD revenues, respectively. Revenues from catalogue DVD titles accounted for 49% and 35% of fiscal 2006 and 2005 net DVD revenues, respectively. If we cannot acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity, our future net revenues would be negatively impacted. 22 Image Entertainment, Inc. We May Need Additional Funding to Continue Acquiring Desirable Programming. Availability of working capital is a substantial factor in our ability to produce and/or acquire new content. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. We may need to raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content or to create content we find desirable. Should additional funds be raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders may be reduced. If adequate funds are not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, and/or respond to competitive pressures in the industry. Our Current DVD and CD Genre Revenue Concentrations May Become Unpopular With Our Retail Customers and End-Consumers, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, our DVD title genre revenue concentration was heavily weighted toward comedy, music and television-related DVD programming. In 2005, our DVD title genre revenue concentration was heavily weighted toward music-related DVD programming. We may not be able to successfully continue producing or acquiring content in the same genres, or achieve the same strength within the genres we were successful with in fiscal 2007. If we cannot compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile DVD and CD content, our business may be adversely affected. Inventory Obsolescence May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain a substantial investment in DVD and CD inventory, and if we overestimate the demand for a particular title, we may retain significant quantities of that title in our warehouse. Retained inventory occupies valuable storage space and may become obsolete as our distribution term for the title expires. Although we may sell such inventory at a deeply discounted price toward the end of the distribution term in order to recoup our manufacturing, storage and other costs, there is no guarantee that a market will exist for a given title, even at the deeply discounted price. Alternatively, we may renew the exclusive distribution rights to an expiring title, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so, or do so on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, our license and/or distribution agreements sometimes contain terms, such as minimum royalties per unit and music publishing fees, which effectively prevent us from steeply discounting the price on some titles. We have a strong history of renewing our exclusive rights under license and distribution agreements. Problems Distributing Our Programming Internationally May Adversely Affect Our Business. We distribute our programming internationally. As a result, our business may be subject to various risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. Risks faced in distributing our programming internationally include: cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, changes in laws and policies affecting international trade (including taxes), credit risk, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and controls, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection, terrorism, changing retailer and consumer tastes and preferences with regard to our programming, differing degrees of protection of our intellectual property, cultural barriers, and potential instability of foreign economies and governments, which may adversely affect our international sales. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. The Majority of International Revenues Are Generated By Three Sublicensees. Revenues generated from our international business segment are primarily derived from the sales efforts of Sony BMG, Warner Music Group and Digital Site. Should any of Sony BMG, Warner or Digital Site default on their respective sublicense agreements with us or fail to successfully perform, an important part of our business strategy, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. We Have Direct and Indirect Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Although our Sony BMG and Digital Site sublicense agreements are U.S. Dollar denominated, with these parties reporting to us and paying us in U.S. Dollars, the underlying Sony BMG sales transactions are in Euros and the underlying Digital Site sales transactions are in Yen. On June 9, 2007, the Euro was equivalent to approximately U.S. $1.34 and the Yen was equivalent to approximately U.S. $0.00824. Should the U.S. Dollar strengthen compared to either the Euro or the Yen, our sublicensors’ reported royalties to us on a title-by-title basis and in the aggregate would decline (assuming consistent unit sales) and thus reduce our revenues recognized. Image Entertainment, Inc. 23 We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses. We sustained net losses in fiscal 2007 and 2006, and were profitable in fiscal 2005. Our accumulated deficit at March 31, 2007 was $22.3 million. Due to the inherent unpredictability of high-profile content acquisition and competition for limited retail shelf space, we may incur losses again in the future. Inability to Maintain Relationships with Our Program Suppliers and Vendors May Adversely Affect Our Business. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of those DVDs for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. We can give no assurances, however, that titles in production which have been financed by us will be timely delivered as agreed or of the expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery, including rights clearances, could negatively impact the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. We can give no assurance that such content will ultimately be purchased in internally forecasted quantities by our retail customers or ultimately desired by end-consumers. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these exclusive rights as existing agreements with program suppliers expire, that our current program suppliers will continue to support the DVD format in accordance with our exclusive agreements, that our current content suppliers will continue to license titles to us on the current terms or on terms favorable to us, or that we will be able to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive titles in a timely and efficient manner. The Full Exploitation of Our Rights Requires Us to Conduct Business in Areas Where Our Expertise Is Limited. In order to fully exploit some of the rights we have acquired, we are required to conduct business in sectors (e.g. Internet, rental, broadcast, video on demand, in-flight, satellite) where we are not as experienced as we are in the DVD and home video sectors. Accordingly, when exploiting such sectors in which we are less experienced, we may realize a greater proportion of costs, or we may not realize as much of a proportion of revenue, as we would in the DVD and home video sectors. Loss of Key Personnel May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success greatly depends on the performance of our executive management, including President and Chief Executive Officer Martin Greenwald, Chief Operating Officer David Borshell and Chief Financial Officer Jeff Framer. The loss of the services of key persons of our executive management could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Occurrence of Events for Which We Are Not Insured May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against various risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in types and amounts that we believe to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may elect to limit coverage or not to carry insurance for some risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance in light of the steep increase in premiums in Southern California after the Northridge earthquake on January 17, 1994. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flows and overall profitability. Risks Relating to Our Industry DVD Sales Are Not Sustaining the Same Level of Growth as Before. We believe that consumer interest in the DVD format is partly due to interest in building the consumer’s personal DVD library of desired entertainment programming. Although our exclusive titles have generally shown stable sales over extended periods, as consumers build their DVD libraries, or with the introduction of new home entertainment formats, DVD sales may decline and adversely affect our operations. In addition, the leveling off of DVD player penetration has clearly resulted in a similar leveling off in DVD sales growth. For more information regarding the trend of DVD sales growth, see “Item 1. Business – Industry Trends” above. Decreasing Retail Prices for DVDs May Negatively Impact Our Revenues. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we are able to adopt. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. 24 Image Entertainment, Inc. Failure to Effectively Expand Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) May Adversely Affect Our Business. Many large retailers allow approved suppliers to manage inventory within VMI systems whereby suppliers like us are responsible for planning, monitoring, stocking and fulfilling directly to individual retail stores and outlets. We have fully implemented all of the necessary VMI software and systems and are currently engaged in providing this service to three significant customers who require VMI in order to continue direct shipments with them. We are evaluating additional opportunities to deploy our VMI system with other retail customers. We cannot assure you that implementation of VMI with other customers will be done in a timely or effective manner, or that the VMI software we have implemented will be acceptable to other retail customers. Implementation of VMI requires capital expenditures for initial setup, installation and integration. In addition, we are incurring ongoing fees for software maintenance and support, item planning, order management and picking, packing, labeling and shipping of product. Failure to implement VMI in a timely manner with other customers could result in decreased opportunities for shelf space or decreased margins, and may require us to sell to VMI customers indirectly through third-parties who have already implemented VMI. While we should be able to add other customers without significant additional costs or time, there can be no assurance this will be the case, and VMI implementation may require additional freight charges as inventory is sent directly to retail stores and outlets in smaller packages with greater frequency. Our Success Depends on the Commercial Success of Our Programming. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Our success will depend in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time, which may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Timing and timeliness are also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g. an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Decreasing Retail Shelf Space May Limit Sales of Our Programming. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent content suppliers for limited retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. Although the amount of retail shelf space for DVDs had previously been growing in approximate correlation to the growth rate in penetration of DVD players, the leveling off of DVD player penetration has resulted in a similar leveling off in retail shelf space growth. It is within this changing environment that our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a growing supply of entertainment content. Because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales velocity in the millions of units, which typically require more shelf space to support, we may not be able to afford or obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers that are our core customers, which could result in decreased revenues and gross margins. For more information regarding decreasing retail shelf space due to DVD releases of major studios, see “Item 1. Business – Competition” above. Our Film Production Efforts May Not be Financially Successful. Our co-produced films are more expensive to create than our music and stand-up comedy event DVD co-productions, and the time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues is longer. While much of our programming is sold to retailers on a sell-through basis, the financial success of our filmed programming will depend on our ability to generate higher sales to retailers who primarily rent programming such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery, Hollywood Entertainment (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Movie Gallery) and Netflix, as well as to mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Costco and Target. Our filmed programming may not ultimately be as desirable to our target customers as we would hope, which would lead to lower than expected sales, decreased profit margins or losses. Conflicting High-Definition DVD Formats May Cause Inefficiencies. Currently, two major platforms are competing to become the dominant high-definition format, and talks to unify the platforms have been unsuccessful. The HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc® platforms have both recently launched. For many of our titles, we hold rights to both platforms, but simultaneously supporting both platforms will cause increased production costs and decreased efficiencies with respect to inventory management and sales. Moreover, competing platforms may cause a delay in high-definition player market penetration, and mainstream acceptance of high-definition DVD in general, as consumers may decide to wait and see which platform prevails before purchasing a player. Image Entertainment, Inc. 25 We May Not Be Able to Keep Pace with Technological Advances. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments. Because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. It is also impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on our ability to compete effectively in a changing market. An Increase In Product Returns May Adversely Affect Our Business. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Our allowances for sales returns may not be adequate to cover potential returns in the future, particularly in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. Our experience over two of the past three years has been one of increasing return rates, and we expect this trend to continue. Illegal Piracy May Reduce Our Revenues. The music industry is facing a major challenge in the form of illegal piracy resulting from Internet downloading and/or CD recorders. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. Although we currently derive only 4% of our revenues from audio CDs, we are hopeful that our proportional revenues in this sector will increase. Additionally, according to Nielsen Media Research, just over 17% of U.S. TV households now have a digital video recorder (DVR). According to In-Stat, DVRs are gradually gaining greater market penetration: shipments of DVRs are estimated to be 19.8 million units for calendar 2006. As DVD recorders, DVRs and high-speed Internet connections become more popular, and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core DVD business. Others’ Failure to Promote Our Programming May Adversely Affect Our Business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of programming which we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular music concert, feature film or related product. We may not control the manner in which a particular artist, film or related product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding DVD or CD release. Although artists, record companies, studios and producers have a financial interest in the success of any such concerts or films distributed by us, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. Additionally, the availability of retailer programs relating to product placement, co-op advertising and market development funds, and our ability and willingness to pay for such programs, are also important with respect to promoting our exclusive titles. If DVD Cannot Compete Successfully with Other Formats of Home Entertainment, Our Revenues May Be Negatively Impacted. The DVD format competes with other formats of in-home entertainment, such as network, syndicated, cable and pay-per-view television, and home satellite systems. The DVD format also competes with new and emerging technologies in the entertainment industry, such as entertainment programming on the Internet, video on demand, high-definition television, digital videotape, and optical discs with greater storage capacity. These alternate home entertainment formats and emerging content delivery technologies could negatively impact the overall market for our DVD sales, especially if we are unable to continue to adapt and exploit the development and advancement of such technology. If We Cannot Continue to Secure DVD License and Distribution Rights, Our Business May Be Materially Adversely Affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to secure DVD and other license and distribution rights on terms acceptable to us. For more information regarding our continuing ability to obtain DVD license and distribution rights, see “Item 1. Business – Competition” above. Major motion picture studios have normally not granted, nor are they expected to grant, exclusive DVD licenses to us for new releases and popular catalogue titles. Instead, the major motion picture studios will most likely continue to sell DVD titles directly to retailers. We expect to continue to license exclusive DVD and other home entertainment format content, but we cannot assure you that we can remain competitive against licensing entities with greater financial resources or that independent program suppliers will not distribute their programming themselves. In addition, our success will continue to be dependent upon our ability to identify and secure rights to exclusive content that appeal to consumers. 26 Image Entertainment, Inc. We May Not Possess Satisfactory Rights in Our Properties. Although we require satisfactory chain of title information to our exclusively licensed content, the risk exists that some programs may have a defective chain of title. The validity and ownership of rights to some titles can be uncertain and may be contested by third parties. Protecting and Defending against Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our ability to compete in the home entertainment industry depends, in part, upon successful protection of our proprietary and intellectual property. We protect our property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in some jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions of our distribution, there are no copyright and/or trademark protections available. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or portions or applications of our intended productions. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the resulting diversion of resources could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. From time to time, we may also receive claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Regardless of the validity or the success of the claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Stock Failure to Consummate the Merger with BTP May Result in a Material Decrease in the Market Price of Our Common Stock. The announcement of our execution of the merger agreement with BTP on March 29, 2007, resulted in a jump in our stock price to levels approaching the $4.40 per share described in the merger agreement. In the event we are unable to consummate the merger with BTP for any reason, our stock price may drop to the prices we were trading at prior to the announcement of the merger agreement with BTP, or perhaps even lower, and you may lose all or a substantial part of your investment. Our Stock Price May Be Subject to Substantial Volatility, and You May Lose All or a Substantial Part of Your Investment. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Market®. There is a limited public float, and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. Over the last year through June 14, 2007, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $3.05 and $4.29 per share on volume ranging from 1,350 to over 5.3 million shares per day. As a result, the current price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, without limitation, the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, and market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. Any Future Sales of Equity May Significantly Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We currently have S-3 and S-4 registration statements for the issuance of our securities in exchange for either cash or other securities on file with the SEC. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. Image Entertainment, Inc. 27 We May Incur Increased Costs as a Result of Laws and Regulations Relating to Corporate Governance Matters. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC and by NASDAQ, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. We will become subject to additional regulatory requirements in our next annual report, including Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley which will require us to include in our annual report for the period ending March 31, 2008, a report by management on our internal controls over financial reporting. The additional costs and efforts to do so could be substantial. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board, our Board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with BTP As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, we have entered into an agreement to merge with BTP. Our ability to complete the merger with BTP is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, and other risks to consummation of the transaction. Additional risk factors associated with the proposed merger with BTP are as follows. Our Business Could Be Adversely Impacted By Uncertainty Related to the Proposed Merger with BTP. Whether or not the merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could impact or cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • our current clients may experience uncertainty associated with the merger and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships and/or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us, either before or after completion of the merger, and we may face additional challenges in competing for new and renewal business; • our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees; • the attention of our management may be directed toward the completion of the merger and transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of our business; and • the uncertainty of retaining business with our suppliers and vendors can be further exacerbated by the merger, and delay in the completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if the merger is not completed. Failure To Complete the Merger Could Negatively Impact Our Stock Price and Our Future Business and Financial Results. If the proposed merger is not completed, our business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including: • being required, under certain circumstances under the BTP merger agreement, to pay a termination fee; • having incurred certain costs relating to the proposed merger that are payable whether or not the merger is completed; • the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger instead of on our operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and • customer perception may be negatively impacted which could affect our ability to compete for, or to win, new and renewable business in the marketplace. 28 Image Entertainment, Inc. Even If the Proposed Merger is Completed, the Combined Company Will Be Subject to Certain Risks Associated with the Merger. In particular, the stock price and the business of the combined company could be adversely affected by certain risks associated with the merger, including: • the combined company may be unable to successfully integrate ours and BTP’s operations or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the merger; • the combined company may be unable to retain key employees, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company; and • the combined company will incur significant transaction and merger related costs in connection with the merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 