ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of (and may continue to incur) losses, limited working capital and limited access to financing. We had a net loss applicable to common shareholders and sustained operating and net losses in fiscal 2012 and in prior years. We had an accumulated deficit of $58.9 million and a working capital deficit of $6.4 million at March 31, 2012. Our cash requirements continue to exceed the level of cash generated by operations. Accordingly, we have limited working capital. We may need to raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content we find desirable, particularly with respect to our competition for home entertainment rights to feature films. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. Because of our history of losses and negative cash flows, our ability to obtain adequate additional financing on satisfactory terms may be limited. Our ability to raise financing through sales of equity securities depends on general market conditions, including the demand for our common stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital through the sale of equity securities, and if we were able to sell equity, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If adequate financing is not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures in the industry. We generate significant amounts of net revenue for programming from one content supplier, the loss of which would adversely affect our business. We depend on the exclusive distribution of programming from The Criterion Collection, which contributed approximately 23% and 26% of our net revenues from programming in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Should liquidity issues cause us to default on our payment obligations under our exclusive distribution agreement, The Criterion Collection may terminate our distribution rights, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic weakness may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global economic downturn has had a significant negative effect on our revenues and may continue to do so. As consumers reduced spending and scaled back purchases of our programming, our retail customers returned product and reduced purchases of our programming, which adversely affected our revenues and results of operations during the 2012 fiscal year, as well as in fiscal 2011. Although improved in fiscal 2012, weak consumer demand for our product may continue in the future and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a high concentration of sales to relatively few customers, the loss of which may adversely affect our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal 2012, Walmart and AEC each accounted for approximately 11% of our net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2011, Amazon.com and AEC each accounted for approximately 16% of our net revenues. Our top five customers accounted for over 45% of our fiscal 2012 net revenues. We may be unable to maintain favorable relationships with our retailers and distributors, including SPHE (see below). Further, our retailers and distributors may be adversely affected by economic conditions. If we lose any of our top customers or if any of these customers reduces or cancels a significant order, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our high concentration of sales to relatively few customers (and use of a third-party to manage collection of substantially all packaged goods receivables) may result in significant uncollectible accounts receivable exposure, which may adversely affect our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. At March 31, 2012, Walmart and AEC accounted for 8.1% and 7.9%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. At March 31, 2011, Amazon.com and AEC accounted for 15% and 11%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. We face credit exposure from our retail customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. If these customers fail to pay their accounts receivable, file for bankruptcy or significantly reduce their purchases of our programming, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. For example, we reserved approximately $408,000 for Borders Group’s bankruptcy filing in fiscal 2011. There were no similar events in fiscal 2012. Image Entertainment, Inc. 14 Table of Contents A high concentration of our gross accounts receivables is attributable to Sony Pictures Home Entertainment (or SPHE), as they are our vendor of record for shipments of physical product to North American retailers and wholesalers. As part of our arrangement with SPHE, SPHE collects the receivables from our end customers, provides us with monthly advance payments on such receivables (less a reserve), then trues up the accounts receivables accounting quarterly. While we remain responsible for the credit risk from the end customer, if SPHE should fail to adequately collect and pay us the accounts receivable they collect on our behalf, whether due to inadequate processes and procedures, inability to pay, bankruptcy or otherwise, our business financial condition, results of operations and liquidity would be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on SPHE . We entered into the agreement with SPHE in 2011 and realized significant cost savings compared with our prior replicator agreements, and also enhanced distribution of our content. SPHE provides distribution and replicator services under a contract that expires in August 2013, and we may not be able to renew that contract on favorable terms. SPHE provides us with access to significant customers that might not otherwise do business with Image. We have a high concentration of sales from relatively few titles, which may affect future net revenues if we do not acquire additional titles. Our top five fiscal 2012 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 12.8% of our fiscal 2012 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2012 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 16.5% of our fiscal 2012 net revenues. Generally, new releases become part of our catalogue after six months. Sales for catalogue titles have historically decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire. If we are unable to acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity to replace the revenue provided by our existing titles, our future net revenues will be negatively affected. Our strategy to acquire cast-driven finished feature film content may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are primarily known as an aggregator of exclusive distribution rights for eclectic, non-feature film entertainment programming. In our effort to acquire more cast-driven finished feature films, we face competition from other distribution entities that are well known for acquiring and distributing this genre of programming. We face competition from better-capitalized entities, including the major motion picture and independent studios, and may be unable to offer the same upfront money required to secure the rights for certain available programming. While we have key members of management and staff with feature film acquisition, sales and marketing talent and experience, we may not be ultimately successful in acquiring or selling feature film content competitively or to the extent of our current plans which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with our strategy of pursuing acquisitions, joint ventures and partnering arrangements. A key element of our business strategy is acquiring accretive businesses and entering into joint ventures and other creative partnering arrangements, which pose unique risks. For example, regardless of whether we complete any such transaction, its negotiation, as well as the integration of any acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Further, any such transaction could also potentially result in the future impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to gauge and predict the commercial success of our programming could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted. Timing is also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g., an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Our success depends in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time. Our inability to gauge and predict the commercial success of our programming could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Image Entertainment, Inc. 15 Table of Contents Our current genre revenue concentrations may become unpopular with our retail customers and end-consumers, which may adversely affect our business. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, the majority of our revenues were from sales, which were heavily weighted toward comedy, music and television-related programming and feature film programming. We may not be able to successfully continue producing or acquiring content in the same genres, or achieve the same strength within these genres. If we are unable to compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile content, our business may be adversely affected. Failure to satisfy terms and conditions of the transaction agreements for the purchase of Madacy Home Video may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to satisfy all of the terms and conditions related to the purchase of Madacy Home Video (or Madacy transaction), including, without limitation, the future repurchase of Madacy Entertainment US, Inc.’s (or Madacy US) 30% interest in our subsidiary, Image/Madacy Home Entertainment, LLC. If we are unable to satisfy the terms and conditions of the Madacy transaction and Madacy US declares a material default that we are unable to timely rectify, we may lose the right to distribute content obtained under the Madacy transaction, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to recoup advances paid to secure exclusive distribution rights. Our most significant costs and cash expenditures relate to acquiring content for exclusive distribution. Most agreements to acquire content require upfront advances against royalties or net profits expected to be earned from future distribution. The advance amounts are derived from our estimate of net revenues that will be realized from our distribution of the title. Although these estimates are based on management’s knowledge of current events and actions management may undertake in the future, actual results will differ from those estimates. If sales do not meet our original estimates, we may (i) not recognize the expected gross margin or net profit, (ii) not recoup our advances or (iii) record accelerated amortization and/or fair value write-downs of advances paid. We recorded accelerated amortization and fair value write-downs of film costs in the amounts of $1.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Any of these events may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inability to maintain relationships with our program suppliers and vendors may adversely affect our business. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of content for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. However, those titles in production which have been financed by us may not be timely delivered as agreed or be of expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery of titles, including rights clearances, could negatively affect the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. In addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if: ● we are unable to renew our existing agreements as they expire; ● our current program suppliers do not continue to support the DVD or other applicable format in accordance with our exclusive agreements; ● our current content suppliers do not continue to license titles to us on terms favorable to us; or ● we are unable to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive or high-profile titles in a timely and efficient manner. We may not be able to keep pace with technological advances, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments, including Blu-ray and digital delivery. Because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. If we are unable to keep pace with accepted technological advances in delivering entertainment programming, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Image relies on its information technology infrastructure, which includes third party and internally developed software, and purchased or leased hardware that support Image's information technology and various business processes. Image's business, reputation and brand image could suffer if its infrastructure fails to perform as intended. Image relies on purchased or leased hardware and software licensed from third parties or internally developed in order to manage its business. Image's ability to maintain and upgrade its information technology infrastructure is critical to the success of its business. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any disruptions to Image's infrastructure or loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could affect Image's operations, which could negatively affect Image's business until corrected or until equivalent technology is either developed by Image or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, the software underlying Image's operations can contain undetected errors. Image may be forced to modify its operations until such problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that it does not detect. Problems with the software underlying Image's operations could result in loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and capital costs, diversion of resources, loss of market share and damage to Image's reputation which could adversely affect Image's business, financial condition and results of operations. Image Entertainment, Inc. 16 Table of Contents Image and third parties that manage portions of Image's secure data are subject to cybersecurity risks and incidents. Image's business involves the storage and transmission of customers' personal information, shopping preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and Image's financial and strategic data. The protection of Image's customer, employee and Company data is vitally important to Image. While Image has implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, any failure of these measures and any failure of third parties that assist Image in managing its secure data could adversely affect Image's business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure by third parties to promote our programming may adversely affect our business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of the programming we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular feature film, stand-up comedy performance, music concert or other product. We may not control the manner in which a particular product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding releases. Although actors, producers, artists, record companies and studios have a financial interest in the success of any films, concerts or other product we distribute, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. A continued high rate of product returns may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Our allowances for sales returns may not be adequate to cover potential returns in the future, particularly in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. We have experienced a high rate of product returns over the past three years. We expect a relatively high rate of product returns to continue, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our business could be harmed. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Moreover, we believe that our success greatly depends on the contributions of our executive officers, including Chief Executive Officer, Theodore S. Green, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, John P. Avagliano, and Vice Chairman, John W. Hyde. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive management, any of our employees may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the acquisition of content and harm the market's perception of us. Competition for the caliber of talent required to acquire and distribute content continues to increase. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We depend on third-party shipping and fulfillment companies for the delivery of our products. If these companies experience operational difficulties or disruptions, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on SPHE, our distribution and manufacturing partner, to determine the best delivery method for our products. SPHE relies entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping companies, principally Federal Express, for small package deliveries and less-than-truckload service carriers for larger deliveries, for the delivery of our products. The termination of arrangements between SPHE and one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products on a timely or cost-efficient basis from SPHE to our customers, could disrupt our business, reduce net sales and harm our reputation. Furthermore, an increase in the amount charged by these shipping companies could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings. Image Entertainment, Inc. 17 Table of Contents We incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance for public companies, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Industry Revenues from the standard DVD format are declining. During calendar 2011, the DVD marketplace experienced the fifth straight year-over-year decline for the category since the format debuted in 1997. The Digital Entertainment Group reported a slight decline in sales of packaged media units (including DVD and Blu-ray) in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2012. We estimate approximately 53% and 65% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, was generated from the sale of standard DVDs. The continued maturation of the standard DVD format may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Decreasing retail prices for DVDs may negatively affect our revenues and gross profit margins. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. Decreasing retail shelf space for our industry may limit sales of our programming, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent content suppliers for limited retail shelf space, which space has been shrinking in absolute terms as “brick and mortar” retailers have fewer stores, and for retailer open-to-buy dollars. Our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a large and diverse supply of entertainment content from other suppliers. New releases generally exceed several hundred titles a week. We believe this competition can be especially challenging for independent labels like us, because the new releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales rates in the millions of units, and typically require much more shelf space to support. Shelf space limitations at our “brick and mortar” retail customers are exacerbated by the increasing popularity of the high-definition format, Blu-ray. The combination of standard discs, premium discs and special-edition boxed sets across up to two formats means that a release can come in as many six different configurations. With the possible exception of our most popular new release titles and top-selling catalogue titles, it can be a challenge to obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers who comprise our core “brick and mortar” customers. The continued retailer trend toward greater visibility for titles at the expense of quantity (i.e., “face out” rather than “spine out” placement) has the effect of reducing the total number of titles actually carried by a retailer. For retailers, reconciling the expanding catalog with limited shelf space is becoming increasingly urgent. Meanwhile, rights holders like Image and other non-studio content providers have a growing concern that many titles are simply not strong enough to secure shelf space. If we are unable to secure sufficient shelf space for our programming, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Piracy may reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operation. The music industry has faced a major challenge in the form of piracy resulting from Internet downloading and recording devices. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. As digital video recorders, or DVRs, and high-speed Internet connections become more popular and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core business. Motion picture piracy is already extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier because of technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products may reduce the revenue we receive from our products, which may cause an adverse material effect on our business. In order to contain this problem, we require our retail distribution partners to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures such as geo-filtering, which could result in significant expenses and loss of revenue. Even with such security and anti-piracy measures, we may be unable to prevent piracy. Image Entertainment, Inc. 18 Table of Contents The entertainment and motion picture industries are rapidly evolving, and recent trends have shown that audience response to both traditional and emerging distribution channels is volatile and difficult to predict. The entertainment industry in general and the motion picture industry in particular continue to undergo significant changes, due both to shifting consumer tastes and to technological developments. For example, new technologies, such as video-on-demand and Internet distribution of films, have provided motion picture companies with new channels through which to distribute their films. Accurately forecasting both the changing expectations of movie audiences and market demand within these new channels has proven challenging. We cannot accurately predict the overall effect shifting audience tastes, technological change or the availability of alternative forms of entertainment may have on the distributor. In addition to uncertainty regarding the DVD market, there is uncertainty as to whether other developing distribution channels and formats, including video-on-demand, Internet distribution of films and high-definition, will attain expected levels of public acceptance or, if such channels or formats are accepted by the public, whether we will be successful in exploiting the business opportunities they provide. Moreover, to the extent that these emerging distribution channels and formats gain popular acceptance, the demand for delivery through DVDs may decrease. Risks Relating to Our Stock and Credit Facility Our issuance of preferred stock resulted in substantial dilution to our stockholders and stockholdings concentration, and the rights of the holders of preferred stock could render future financings and merger and acquisition transactions more difficult. On January 8, 2010, we raised gross proceeds of $22.0 million through the sale and issuance to affiliates of JH Partners, LLC (or JH Partners) of 22,000 shares of Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock (or Series B Preferred) and 196,702 shares of Series C Junior Participating Preferred Stock (or Series C Preferred), some of which were subsequently sold to our executive management team. The Series C Preferred subsequently converted into 196,702,000 shares of our common stock. While this private placement provided us with additional working capital required to repay outstanding indebtedness and fund continuing operations, the transaction was extremely dilutive to our existing stockholders and concentrated our stockholdings. Further, in the event of any merger or acquisition of Image, each share of Series B Preferred would be entitled to receive an amount in cash equal to the sum of (i) a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (subject to adjustment upon any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series B Preferred) and (ii) the amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends, which accrue on a cumulative compounding basis at a rate of 12% per annum on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. This could have the effect of making future equity financing and merger and acquisition transactions, other than the RLJ transaction, more difficult. Because of their significant stock ownership, our largest stockholders exert significant influence over our future direction. Our largest stockholders, JH Partners and its affiliates hold approximately 19,670 shares of Series B Preferred and 175,868,700 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 68.81% of our outstanding voting securities as of June 1, 2012. JH Partners and its affiliates have the ability to elect the board of directors irrespective of the vote of any other stockholders. Accordingly, JH Partners is able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of JH Partners (or those of our other significant stockholders) may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We are not currently subject to stock exchange corporate governance requirements and our stockholders may not have the same benefits or protections afforded to stockholders of exchange listed companies. Effective as of February 3, 2010, our common stock was suspended from trading on The Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq Stock Market imposes certain corporate governance requirements on listed companies. For example, listed companies must, among other things, have a majority of independent board members and fully independent audit, nominating and compensation committees, which we do not meet. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to, and in full compliance with, the corporate governance requirements of a securities exchange. Image Entertainment, Inc. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price may be subject to substantial volatility, and stockholders may lose all or a substantial part of their investment. Our common stock currently trades in the over-the-counter market on the OTCQB marketplace. There is a limited public float, and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. From June 1, 2011 through June 1, 2012, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $0.03 and $0.18 per share on volume ranging from none to over 400,000 shares per day. As a result, the market price for our common stock may not necessarily be a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock trades may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, and market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. Investors may find it difficult to dispose of their shares. There is currently a limited trading market for our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace. The ability to trade our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace depends on the presence and investment decisions of willing buyers and sellers. Therefore, the market of investors who are willing to purchase our common stock is limited, the volume of our common stock traded on a daily basis is low, and the liquidity of our common stock is constrained. Prices for securities traded solely on the OTCQB marketplace may be difficult to obtain. This very limited liquidity, marketability, the reduced public access to price quotations and lack of a regular trading market may depress the market price of our common stock. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. Trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher-priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Failure to have our common stock listed on an exchange could result in loss of investors, increased obligations under state securities laws, decreased coverage by securities analysts and a higher cost of capital. Effective as of February 3, 2010, trading in our common stock was suspended from trading on The Nasdaq Global Market. The quotations for our common stock now appear on the OTCQB marketplace of Pink OTC Markets Inc. Delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market and failure to have our common stock listed on an exchange have subjected us to numerous consequences that may adversely affect our business, including the loss of investors. Further, delisting may result in decreased coverage by securities analysts. Our ability to raise additional capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, may be impaired. Furthermore, we may experience decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market-making activity, and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers may be willing to execute trades with respect to our common stock. The delisting may decrease the attractiveness of our common stock and cause the trading volume of our common stock to decline significantly, which could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. We intend to seek to be relisted on a securities exchange at some point in the future; however, we may not be able to satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange, an exchange may not approve our listing and the timing of any relisting is uncertain. Image Entertainment, Inc. 20 Table of Contents Any future sales of equity may significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants or other convertible securities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will or could be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our stock price may be negatively affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: ● no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; ● a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; ● the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill any vacancies, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; ● the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; ● a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent or electronic transmission, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; ● the requirement that, except as required by law and subject to any rights of holders of preferred stock, a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president and the secretary, in each case pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and ● advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Image Entertainment, Inc. 21 Table of Contents Our liquidity substantially depends on our ability to borrow against our revolving credit facility. Our cash collections are deposited into a lockbox with PNC Bank N.A., the lender under our revolving credit facility effective June 23, 2011. The deposited cash receipts are automatically swept to reduce our outstanding loan balance. Currently, all of our operating working capital needs are financed through borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If PNC does not provide funding under our revolving credit facility due to (i) the occurrence of an event of default, as defined in the loan agreement, (ii) non-compliance with our covenants, or (iii) our borrowing to the fullest extent of the line, our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Additionally, delays or any failure to collect our trade accounts receivable, upon which our borrowing availability is substantially based, would have a negative effect on our borrowing availability and liquidity. If we are unable to obtain funding under our revolving credit facility, we would have to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our credit facility contains covenants that may limit the way we conduct business. Our $17.5 million credit facility with PNC contains various covenants limiting our ability to: ● incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; ● pay dividends and make other distributions; ● pre-pay any subordinated indebtedness; ● make investments and other restricted payments; ● make capital expenditures; ● enter into merger or acquisition transactions; and ● sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional debt or equity financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Additionally, our credit facility includes language that states that a material adverse change in our business, assets or prospects would be considered an “event of default.” If we are unable to comply with the covenants, or satisfy the financial ratio and other tests, or should an event of default occur, as determined and invoked by PNC, a default may occur under our credit facility. In the event of default, unless we are able to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver with PNC, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition, depending upon our outstanding balance at the time. Risks Related to the Merger Agreement As discussed below in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Subsequent Event – RLJ Transaction,” on April 2, 2012 we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with RLJ Acquisition, Inc. (or RLJ). The negotiating execution and performance of that agreement subjects Image to additional risks including: ● Diminution of management focus on our business. ● Creation of uncertainty for our suppliers, customers and employees. ● Significant transaction expenses. Image will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the business combination is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the business combination on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on RLJ, Image or Acorn Media Group, Inc. (or Acorn) and consequently on the combined company. These uncertainties may impair Image’s ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause suppliers, customers and others that deal with Image to defer entering into contracts with Image or making other decisions concerning Image or seek to change existing business relationships with Image. Certain of Image’s agreements with customers have provisions that may allow such customers to terminate the agreements if the business combination is completed. If key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles and the potential complexities of the business combination, Image’s business could be harmed. In addition, the Image merger agreement restricts Image from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the business combination occurs without the consent of the other party. These restrictions may prevent Image from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the business combination. Image Entertainment, Inc. 22 Table of Contents The Image merger agreement limits Image’s ability to pursue alternatives to the business combination. Image has agreed that it will not solicit, initiate, knowingly encourage or facilitate inquiries or proposals or engage in discussions or negotiations regarding takeover proposals, subject to limited exceptions, including that Image may take certain actions in the event it receives an unsolicited takeover proposal that constitutes a superior proposal or is reasonably expected to lead to a superior proposal, and the Image board determines in good faith, after consultation with its outside legal counsel, that a failure to take action with respect to such takeover proposal would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties. Image has also agreed that the Image board will not change its recommendation to its stockholders or approve any alternative agreement, subject to limited exceptions, including that, at any time prior to the Image business combination approval, the Image board may make a change in recommendation in response to a superior proposal, if the Image board concludes in good faith that a failure to change its recommendation would be inconsistent with the exercise of its fiduciary duties to its stockholders under applicable laws and, if RLJ shall not have, within five (5) business days of its receipt of notice of such superior proposal, made an offer that the Image board shall determine, in good faith, to be at least as favorable to Image’s stockholders as such superior proposal. The Image merger agreement also requires each party to call, give notice of and hold a meeting of its stockholders for the purposes of obtaining the applicable stockholder approval. This special meeting requirement does not apply to a party in the event that the Image merger agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms. In addition, under specified circumstances, Image may be required to pay to RLJ an amount equal to RLJ’s aggregate expenses and a $1.62 million termination fee (depending on the specific circumstances) if the merger is not consummated and, if RLJ is required to pay a termination fee to Acorn under the Acorn purchase agreement, Image must pay one-half of such termination fee actually paid by RLJ to Acorn pursuant to the Acorn Purchase Agreement, not to exceed $500,000. These expenses would likely aggregate substantially more than the termination fee. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Image from considering or proposing an acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher price per share than that proposed in the business combination, or might result in a potential competing acquiror proposing to pay a lower price per share to acquire Image than it might otherwise have been willing to pay. In addition, if the business combination is not completed, RLJ and/or Image may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from Image’s customers and employees. RLJ and Image also could be subject to litigation related to a failure to complete the mergers or to enforce their respective obligations under the Image merger agreement. If the mergers are not consummated, RLJ and Image cannot assure their respective stockholders that the risks described will not materially affect the business, financial results and stock prices of RLJ and/or Image. Image has incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the business combination. Image expects that it will continue to incur significant, transaction-related costs in connection with consummating the business combination. Image will also incur significant fees and expenses relating to financing arrangements and legal, accounting and other transaction fees and costs associated with the business combination. Some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the business combination is completed. Moreover, under specified circumstances, Image may be required to pay to RLJ a termination fee of $1.62 million (depending on the specific circumstances) if the Image merger is not consummated. Image may also be required, under certain circumstances, to pay the out of pocket expenses of RLJ under the Image merger agreement. These expenses would likely aggregate substantially more than the termination fee. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Image Entertainment, Inc. 23 Table of Contents 