ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Risks Relating to Our Business We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses. We sustained operating and net losses in fiscal 2008 and 2007, and net losses in fiscal 2006. We had an accumulated deficit of $45.4 million and a working capital deficit of $7.4 million at March 31, 2008. Due to the inherent unpredictability of high-profile content acquisition and competition for limited retail shelf space, we may incur losses again in the future. There can be no assurance that we will report net earnings in any future period. Our Operating Liquidity Depends on our Ability to Borrow Against Our Revolving Line of Credit. Our cash collections are deposited into a lockbox with our lender. The deposited cash receipts are automatically swept to reduce our outstanding loan balance. Currently, all our operating working capital needs are financed through borrowings under our line of credit. Should the lender not provide funding under our line because of (i) an occurrence an Event of Default, as defined, (ii) non-compliance with our convenants, or (iii) because we have borrowed to the fullest extent of the line, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition would result. We Have Only Limited Working Capital and Limited Access to Financing and We May Need Additional Funding to Continue Acquiring Desirable Programming. Our cash requirements continue to exceed the level of cash generated by operations and we may seek additional resources to support and expand our business, such as debt or equity financing. Availability of working capital is a substantial factor in our ability to produce and/or acquire new content. We may need to raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content or to create content we find desirable, particularly with respect to our competing for home entertainment rights to feature films. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. Because of our history of losses and negative cash flows, our ability to obtain adequate financing on satisfactory terms may be limited. Our ability to raise financing through sales of equity securities depends on general market conditions and the demand for Image’s common stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital through sales of equity securities, and if our stock has a low market price at the time of such sales our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If adequate financing is not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, respond to competitive pressures in the industry which may jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our Credit Facility Contains Covenants that May Limit the Way We Conduct Business. Our $20 million credit facility with Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Western) contains various covenants limiting our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other distributions, pre-pay any subordinated indebtedness, make investments and other restricted payments, make capital expenditures, make acquisitions and sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Under our credit facility, we are also required to maintain a specified financial ratio or maintain a minimum amount of borrowing availability. Additionally, our credit facility includes language that states that a materially adverse change in the business, assets or prospects would be considered an “Event of Default.” If we cannot comply with these covenants, or meet this ratio and other tests, or should an “Event of Default,” as defined, as determined and invoked by Wachovia, it could result in a default under our credit facility, and unless we are able to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, depending upon our outstanding balance at the time. We Have a High Concentration of Sales to Relatively Few Customers Which May Result In Significant Uncollectible Accounts Receivable Exposure. For the year ended March 31, 2008, Amazon.com, Inc., Anderson Merchandisers (which supplies Wal-Mart) and AEC One Stop Group accounted for approximately 15%, 13%, and 11%, respectively, of our net revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2007, Amazon.com, Inc., AEC One Stop Group, and Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 12%, 12% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 11% of our net revenues. At March 31, 2008, AEC One Stop Group and Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 19% and 18%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. At March 31, 2007, AEC One Stop Group and Anderson Merchandisers accounted for 20% and 17%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. At March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers and AEC One Stop accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. Additionally, our top five customers accounted for over 51% of our fiscal 2008 net revenues. Our top 25 customers accounted for approximately 90% of our fiscal 2008 net revenues. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with our retailers and distributors or that they will not be adversely affected by economic conditions. If any of these retailers or distributors reduces or cancels a significant order, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we face credit exposure from our retail customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. With a high concentration of sales to relatively few customers, we cannot assure you that our other retail customers will not experience financial difficulties leading to uncollectible accounts receivable. Any combination of these customers filing for bankruptcy or significantly reducing their purchases of our programming would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We Have a High Concentration of Sales From Relatively Few Titles. Our top five fiscal 2008 new release exclusive titles Jeff Dunham: Spark of Insanity DVD and CD, Shark Week: 20th Anniversary Collection DVD: Suburban Girl DVD, Caligula: Imperial Edition DVD and Gabriel Iglesis: Hot and Fluffy DVD accounted for approximately 13% of our fiscal 2008 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2008 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 18% of our fiscal 2008 net revenues. Although catalogue sales of these titles continue to be relatively strong, sales for these catalogue titles nevertheless have decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire. If we cannot acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity, our future net revenues would be negatively impacted. We May Not Be Successful In Acquiring Cast Driven Finished Feature Film Content or Selling Feature Film Content. We are primarily known as aggregator of exclusive distribution rights for eclectic non-feature film entertainment programming. We face competition from other distribution entities which are well known for acquiring and distributing this genre of programming. We face competition from better capitalized entities, such as the major motion picture and independent studios and may be unable to offer the same upfront money required to secure the rights for certain available programming. While we believe we have added key members of management and staff with feature film acquisition, sales and marketing talent and experience, we may not be ultimately successful in acquiring or selling feature film content competitively or to the extent of our current plans. Our Current DVD and CD Genre Revenue Concentrations May Become Unpopular With Our Retail Customers and End-Consumers, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our DVD title genre revenue concentration was heavily weighted toward comedy, music and television-related DVD programming. We may not be able to successfully continue producing or acquiring content in the same genres, or achieve the same strength within the genres we were successful with, in fiscal 2008. If we cannot compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile DVD and CD content, our business may be adversely affected. Inventory Obsolescence May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain a substantial investment in DVD and CD inventory, and if we overestimate the demand for a particular title, we may warehouse significant quantities of that title. Retained inventory occupies valuable storage space and may become obsolete as our distribution term for the title expires. Although we may sell such inventory at a deeply discounted price toward the end of the distribution term in order to recoup our manufacturing, storage and other costs, there is no guarantee that a market will exist for a given title, even at the deeply discounted price. Alternatively, we may renew the exclusive distribution rights to an expiring title, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so, or do so on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, our royalty and/or distribution fee agreements sometimes contain terms, such as minimum royalties per unit and music publishing fees, which effectively prevent us from steeply discounting the price on some titles. We have a strong history of renewing our exclusive rights under royalty and distribution fee agreements. We May Not be Able to Recoup Advances That We Pay to Secure Exclusive Distribution Rights. Our most significant costs and cash expenditures relate to acquiring content for exclusive distribution and, less recently, the funding of content production or co-production for exclusive distribution. Most agreements to acquire content require up front advances against royalties or net profits expected to be earned from future distribution. The advance amounts are derived from our estimate of net revenues that will be realized from our distribution of the title or titles. Although these estimates are based on management’s knowledge of current events and actions management may undertake in the future, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. As a result of not performing up to our original estimates, we may (i) not recognize the expected gross margin or net profit, (ii) not recoup our advance or (iii) record accelerated amortization and/or fair value writedowns of film costs, including the advances paid. 21 Table of Contents Problems Distributing Our Programming Internationally May Adversely Affect Our Business. We distribute our programming internationally. As a result, our business may be subject to various risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. Risks faced in distributing our programming internationally include: cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, changes in laws and policies affecting international trade (including taxes), credit risk, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and controls, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection, terrorism, changing retailer and consumer tastes and preferences with regard to our programming, differing degrees of protection of our intellectual property, cultural barriers, and potential instability of foreign economies and governments, which may adversely affect our international sales. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. We Have Direct and Indirect Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Although our Sony BMG and Digital Site sublicense agreements are U.S. Dollar denominated, with these parties reporting to us and paying us in U.S. Dollars, the underlying Sony BMG sales transactions are in Euros and the underlying Digital Site sales transactions are in Yen. On June 9, 2008, the Euro was equivalent to approximately U.S. $1.58 and the Yen was equivalent to approximately U.S. $0.00953. Should the U.S. Dollar strengthen compared to either the Euro or the Yen, our sublicensors’ reported royalties to us on a title-by-title basis and in the aggregate would decline (assuming consistent unit sales) and thus reduce our revenues recognized. Inability to Maintain Relationships with Our Program Suppliers and Vendors May Adversely Affect Our Business. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of those DVDs for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. We can give no assurances, however, that titles in production which have been financed by us will be timely delivered as agreed or of the expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery, including rights clearances, could negatively impact the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. We can give no assurance that such content will ultimately be purchased in internally forecasted quantities by our retail customers or ultimately desired by end-consumers. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these exclusive rights as existing agreements with program suppliers expire, that our current program suppliers will continue to support the DVD format in accordance with our exclusive agreements, that our current content suppliers will continue to license titles to us on the current terms or on terms favorable to us, or that we will be able to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive titles in a timely and efficient manner. The Full Exploitation of Our Rights Requires Us to Conduct Business in Areas Where Our Expertise Is Limited. In order to fully exploit some of the rights we have acquired, we are required to conduct business in sectors (e.g. Internet, rental, broadcast, video on demand, in-flight, satellite) where we are not as experienced as we are in the DVD and home video sectors. Accordingly, when exploiting such sectors in which we are less experienced, we may realize a greater proportion of costs, or we may not realize as much of a proportion of revenue, as we would in the DVD and home video sectors. Loss of Key Personnel May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success greatly depends on the performance of our executive management, including President David Borshell, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Framer, Chief Acquisitions Officer Bill Bromiley and Executive Vice President, Operations and Chief Technology Officer Rick Eiberg. The loss of the services of our executive management or other key persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To Be Successful, We Need to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to acquire and distribute content continues to increase. We cannot assure that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel in the future. If we are unable to do so, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Occurrence of Events for Which We Are Not Insured May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against various risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in types and amounts that we believe to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may elect to limit coverage or not to carry insurance for some risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance in light of the steep increase in premiums in Southern California after the Northridge earthquake in January 1994. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flows and overall profitability. 22 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry The Standard DVD Format Has Matured. We believe that consumer interest in the DVD format is partly due to interest in building the consumer’s personal DVD library of desired entertainment programming. Although our exclusive titles have generally shown stable sales over extended periods, as consumers build their DVD libraries, or with the introduction of new home entertainment formats, our DVD sales may decline and adversely affect our operations. For more information regarding the trend of the DVD format maturation, see “Item 1. Business – Industry Trends” above. Decreasing Retail Prices for DVDs May Negatively Impact Our Revenues. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we are able to adopt. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. Failure to Effectively Expand Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) May Adversely Affect Our Business. Many large retailers allow approved suppliers to manage inventory within VMI systems whereby suppliers like us are responsible for planning, monitoring, stocking and fulfilling directly to individual retail stores and outlets. We have fully implemented all of the necessary VMI software and systems and are currently engaged in providing this service to three significant customers who require VMI in order to continue direct shipments with them. We are evaluating additional opportunities to deploy our VMI system with other retail customers. We cannot assure you that implementation of VMI with other customers will be done in a timely or effective manner, or that the VMI software we have implemented will be acceptable to other retail customers. Implementation of VMI requires capital expenditures for initial setup, installation and integration. In addition, we are incurring ongoing fees for software maintenance and support, item planning, order management and picking, packing, labeling and shipping of product. Failure to implement VMI in a timely manner with other customers could result in decreased opportunities for shelf space or decreased margins, and may require us to sell to VMI customers indirectly through third-parties who have already implemented VMI. While we should be able to add other customers without significant additional costs or time, there can be no assurance this will be the case, and VMI implementation may require additional freight charges as inventory is sent directly to retail stores and outlets in smaller packages with greater frequency. Our Success Depends on the Commercial Success of Our Programming. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Our success will depend in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time, which may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Timing and timeliness are also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g. an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Decreasing Retail Shelf Space May Limit Sales of Our Programming. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent content suppliers for limited retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. Our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a large supply and diversity of entertainment content from other suppliers. New DVD releases generally exceed several hundred titles a week. We believe this competition can be especially challenging for independent labels like us, because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales velocity in the millions of units, and typically require much more shelf space to support. 23 Table of Contents Shelf space crunch at our “brick and mortar” retail customers is exacerbated by the arrival of a sole hi-definition DVD format — Blu-ray. The combination of vanilla discs, premium discs and special-edition boxed sets across up to two formats means that a release can come in as many six different configurations. With the exception of our more popular new release titles and top-selling catalogue titles, it can be a challenge to obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers who comprise our core “brick and mortar” customers. The continued retailer trend toward greater visibility for titles at the expense of quantity (i.e. “face out” rather than “spine out” DVD placement) has the effect of reducing the total number of titles actually carried by a retailer. For retailers, reconciling the expanding DVD catalog with limited shelf space is becoming increasingly urgent. Meanwhile, rights holders like Image and other non-studio content providers have a growing concern that many titles are simply not strong enough to secure shelf space. For more information regarding decreasing retail shelf space due to DVD releases of major studios, see “Item 1. Business – Competition” above. Our Prior Film Production Efforts May Not be Successful Financially. Our co-produced films are more expensive to create than our music and stand-up comedy event DVD co-productions, and the time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues is longer. While much of our programming is sold to retailers, the financial success of our filmed programming will depend on our ability to generate higher sales to retailers who primarily rent programming such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery, Hollywood Entertainment (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Movie Gallery) and Netflix, as well as to mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Costco and Target. Our filmed programming may not ultimately be as desirable to our target customers as we would hope, which would lead to lower than expected sales, decreased profit margins or losses. We May Not Be Able to Keep Pace with Technological Advances. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments. Because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. It is also impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on our ability to compete effectively in a changing market. An Increase In Product Returns May Adversely Affect Our Business. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Our allowances for sales returns may not be adequate to cover potential returns in the future, particularly in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. Our experience over two of the past three years has been one of increasing return rates, and we expect this trend to continue. Illegal Piracy May Reduce Our Revenues. The music industry is facing a major challenge in the form of illegal piracy resulting from Internet downloading and/or CD recorders. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. Although we currently derive only 2% of our revenues from audio CDs, we are hopeful that our proportional revenues in this sector will increase. Additionally, according to Nielsen Media Research, just over 20% of U.S. TV households now have a digital video recorder (DVR). According to In-Stat, DVRs are gradually gaining greater market penetration: worldwide shipments of DVRs are estimated to reach 31.6 million units by 2011. As DVD recorders, DVRs and high-speed Internet connections become more popular, and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core DVD business. Motion Picture piracy is already extensive in many parts of the world, and is made easier because of technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products may reduce the revenue we receive from our products, which may cause an adverse material effect on our business. Additionally, in order to contain this problem, we may have to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures, which could result in significant expenses and loss of revenue. Even if implemented, we cannot assure that even the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures will prevent piracy. 24 Table of Contents Others’ Failure to Promote Our Programming May Adversely Affect Our Business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of programming which we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular music concert, feature film or related product. We may not control the manner in which a particular artist, film or related product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding DVD or CD release. Although artists, record companies, studios and producers have a financial interest in the success of any such concerts or films distributed by us, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. Additionally, the availability of retailer programs relating to product placement, co-op advertising and market development funds, and our ability and willingness to pay for such programs, are also important with respect to promoting our exclusive titles. If DVD Cannot Compete Successfully with Other Formats of Home Entertainment, Our Revenues May Be Negatively Impacted. The DVD format competes with other formats of in-home entertainment, such as network, syndicated, cable and pay-per-view television, home satellite systems and video gaming systems. The DVD format also competes with new and emerging technologies in the entertainment industry, such as entertainment programming on the Internet, video on demand, high-definition television, and optical discs with greater storage capacity. These alternate home entertainment formats and emerging content delivery technologies could negatively impact the overall market for our DVD sales, especially if we are unable to continue to adapt and exploit the development and advancement of such technology. If We Cannot Continue to Secure DVD Distribution Rights, Our Business May Be Materially Adversely Affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to secure DVD and other distribution rights on terms acceptable to us. For more information regarding our continuing ability to obtain DVD distribution rights, see “Item 1. Business – Competition” above. Major motion picture studios have normally not granted, nor are they expected to grant, exclusive DVD licenses to us for new releases and popular catalogue titles. Instead, the major motion picture studios will most likely continue to sell DVD titles directly to retailers. We expect to continue to license exclusive DVD and other home entertainment format content, but we cannot assure you that we can remain competitive against licensing entities with greater financial resources or that independent program suppliers will not distribute their programming themselves. In addition, our success will continue to be dependent upon our ability to identify and secure rights to exclusive content that appeal to consumers. We May Not Possess Satisfactory Rights in Our Properties. Although we require satisfactory chain of title information to our exclusively licensed content, as well as E&O insurance and indemnification language from our content providers, the risk exists that some programs may have a defective chain of title. The validity and ownership of rights to some titles can be uncertain and may be contested by third parties, which may result in litigation which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the Unites States, Global or Regional Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our Business. A decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our films, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. A decline in economic conditions could reduce performance of our releases, and an increase in price levels generally, such as the rising price of gasoline, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer. This could adversely affect our revenues and increase our costs. 25 Table of Contents Legislative Actions, Higher Director and Officer Insurance Costs and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements are Likely to Cause Our General and Administrative Expenses to Increase and Impact Our Future Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as changes to the NASDAQ listing standards and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retain additional legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused, and could continue to cause, our general and administrative costs to increase. In addition, insurers have increased and could continue to increase premiums for our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. Changes in or new accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. We Depend on Third Party Shipping and Fulfillment Companies for the Delivery of Our Products. We rely on Arvato Digital Services (“Arvato”), our disc replication and fulfillment partner, to determine the best delivery method for our products. Arvato relies entirely on arrangements with third party shipping companies, principally UPS and Federal Express for small package deliveries and LTL carriers for larger deliveries, for the delivery of our products. The termination of arrangements between Arvato and one or more of these third party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third party shipping companies to deliver products on a timely or cost efficient basis from Arvato to our customers, could disrupt our business, reduce net sales and harm our reputation. Furthermore, an increase in the amount charged by these shipping companies could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings. Protecting and Defending against Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our ability to compete in the home entertainment industry depends, in part, upon successful protection of our proprietary and intellectual property. We protect our property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in some jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions of our distribution, there are no copyright and/or trademark protections available. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or portions or applications of our intended productions. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the resulting diversion of resources could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. From time to time, we may also receive claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Regardless of the validity or the success of the claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our Stock Price May Be Subject to Substantial Volatility, and You May Lose All or a Substantial Part of Your Investment. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Market®. There is a limited public float, and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. Over the last year through June 13, 2008, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $1.09 and $4.47 per share on volume ranging from zero to over 2 million shares per day. As a result, the current price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, without limitation, the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, and market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. Any Future Sales of Equity May Significantly Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We currently have S-8, S-3 and S-4 registration statements for the issuance of our securities in exchange for either cash or other securities on file with the SEC. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. 26 Table of Contents If We are Unable to Conclude that our Internal Control over Financial Reporting is Effective, our Stock Price would be Negatively Impacted. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if beginning with our fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 