ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed due to factors such as dependence on a limited number of key customers and titles, difficulty in acquiring and protecting our exclusive programming, and intense competition in the entertainment industry. Additional information concerning factors that could cause or contribute to such differences can be found in the following discussion, as well as in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a vertically-integrated independent home entertainment content supplier engaged in the acquisition, production and worldwide distribution of exclusive content for release on a variety of formats and platforms, including: · DVD · Broadcast · CD · traditional · HD-DVD · cable · Blu-ray Disc® · satellite · UMD · video on demand (VOD) · VHS · theatrical · digital We are primarily engaged in the domestic acquisition and wholesale distribution of content for release on DVD. We acquire and exploit exclusive distribution rights to a diverse array of general and specialty content on DVD and other home entertainment formats, including: · comedy · country · music concerts · gospel · urban · independent films · television and theatrical · foreign and silent films · theatre · youth culture/lifestyle · Latin We also acquire exclusive rights to audio content for distribution on CD spread across a variety of genres and configurations, including: · albums · Broadway original cast recordings · compilation CDs · audio compilations from our live concert DVDs · TV and movie soundtracks event · comedy programs Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Egami Media, Inc., we are focused on the acquisition and exploitation of content in the expanding digital distribution marketplace for delivery systems such as · VOD · streaming video · download channels Egami continues to aggressively add numerous video and audio titles to its growing library of exclusive digital rights each month. Over the past year, Egami has established direct relationships with a majority of digital industry-retailers and continues to seek additional distribution partners as they emerge. 1 We strive to grow a stream of revenues by maintaining and building a library of titles that can be exploited in a variety of formats and distribution channels. Our active library currently contains: · over 3,000 exclusive DVD titles · approximately 200 CD titles · digital rights to · over 1,500 video titles · over 150 audio titles · containing more than 2,500 individual tracks We currently release an average of over 30 new exclusive DVD titles and five new exclusive CD titles each month. We acquire content mainly by entering into exclusive licensing or distribution arrangements with producers and other content providers. We typically supplement such content by designing and producing additional content and value-added features. We routinely produce our own original entertainment content, focused on DVD live performance music concerts and comedy events with some of the most recognizable names in the industry, and various forms of urban genre content. We are also co-producing feature horror and other genre specific titles with budgets less than $500,000 and up to $3.5 million through co-production agreements with: · Dark Horse Entertainment · Graymark Productions · Amicus Entertainment In addition, we are co-producing a feature thriller film Sisters, a remake of the classic Brian De Palma film, with Sisters Wooster, Inc. to be released under the No Remorse Films banner, headed by highly successful independent film producer Edward R. Pressman. Ed Pressman serves as executive producer of the picture. We will also look to co-produce individual films with other established independent producers. We were incorporated in Colorado as Key International Film Distributors, Inc. in April 1975, our present name was adopted in 1983, we reincorporated in California in November 1989 and reincorporated again in Delaware in September 2005. Our principal executive offices are located at 20525 Nordhoff Street, Suite 200, Chatsworth, California 91311. We maintain a Web site at www.image-entertainment.com. Except as specifically noted, the content of this site is not incorporated by reference and does not constitute a part of this report. The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues derived from the distribution of entertainment content by format for our last three fiscal years. The financial information presented excludes that of our wholly-owned subsidiary, DVDPlanet, Inc., whose assets we sold in September 2003. The information does not represent our business segments, but rather shows net revenue trends by product category: Fiscal Years Ended March 31 (in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 DVD $ 98,226 87.9 % $ 100,374 84.8 % $ 71,683 84.5 % CD 9,094 8.1 12,142 10.3 5,591 6.6 Sublicense 2,819 2.5 4,830 4.1 5,607 6.6 UMD 802 0.7 - - - - VHS 467 0.4 550 0.4 1,415 1.7 Broadcast 494 0.4 487 0.4 544 0.6 TOTAL $ 111,902 100 % $ 118,383 100 % $ 84,840 100 % BUSINESS SEGMENTS We currently have two business segments: 2 · Domestic (U.S. and Canada) · International Our domestic segment primarily consists of acquisition, production and distribution of exclusive DVD content and, through Egami Media, exclusive content for digital distribution via video on demand, streaming video and download. Our international segment includes international video sublicensing and worldwide broadcast rights exploitation. The following table presents consolidated net revenues, net of eliminations, by reportable business segment for the periods presented: Fiscal Years Ended March 31, Fiscal Years Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2006 2005 % Change 2005 2004 % Change Net revenues: Domestic $ 108,667 $ 113,219 (4.0 )% $ 113,219 $ 78,370 44.5 % International 3,235 5,164 (37.4 ) 5,164 6,470 (20.2 ) Consolidated $ 111,902 $ 118,383 (5.5 )% $ 118,383 $ 84,840 39.5 % Domestic Most of the product we release is in the DVD format. According to industry estimates, there are currently more than 58,000 DVD titles available in the domestic market, of which more than 3,000 are actively and exclusively distributed by us. We are a leading independent supplier of DVD content in the music, comedy, special interest, episodic television, urban and lifestyle genres. The following chart reflects the number of cumulative titles we have released by type of content, compared with the cumulative DVD software titles released by the industry through the week ended May 19, 2006, excluding discontinued titles. The following chart does not intend to indcate our market share of DVD revenues, only cumulative titles released. Type of DVD Content Total Number of DVD Titles Number of Image Titles Image Percentage Music 7,562 577 7.6 % Special Interest 12,501 494 4.0 % Theatrical Catalog (pre-1997) 9,506 451 4.7 % Foreign Language (including distributed lines) 4,767 236 5.0 % Television Programming 3,376 162 4.8 % Direct to DVD 6,972 373 5.3 % All Other 14,024 789 5.6 % Total Releases — Cumulative through 5/19/06 58,708 3,082 5.2 % Source: DVD Release Report Revised 5/17/06 We believe that the value gained through the ability to entertain people at home for a reasonable price at convenient times, the opportunity to choose from a very broad selection of programming, the unique and compelling interactive experience of DVD menus, and the audio and video quality of the DVD format, will continue to make DVD a preferred, prepackaged medium of home entertainment for millions of consumers. Many DVDs also offer special features, enhancements and ancillary materials, such as special menu design, multiple audio tracks, behind-the-scenes footage, director commentaries, interviews and discographies, all of which we are able to develop in-house. Exclusive Acquisition. We generally acquire exclusive rights to our content. We acquire our exclusive titles from a wide range of content holders, including: · independent content suppliers · producers · music artists · record labels · artist management 3 We also produce our own original entertainment content focused on DVD live performance stand-up comedy, music concerts and urban genre content, and feature horror and other genre films. We produce, market and sell our exclusive content according to exclusive license or distribution agreements. We actively pursue and secure both domestic (U.S. and Canada) and international distribution rights to exclusive titles in a range of home entertainment formats. In return for exclusive license rights, we pay royalties to our licensors. Royalties are expressed as a percentage of our wholesale net revenues derived from title sales. Typically, we pay royalty advances that are recouped against royalties earned on a title-by-title basis or, if cross-collateralized, against groups of licensed titles from the same licensor. Our license agreements generally provide for a minimum distribution term of at least five years and often considerably longer. Some license agreements contain provisions for an extension of the distribution term if we meet specified performance milestones or if we are still unrecouped at the end of the distribution term. In return for exclusive distribution rights, we generally tender net wholesale revenues to content suppliers, which are expressed as a percentage of wholesale revenues after subtracting our distribution fee and recouping costs allocated to the content owner such as production, manufacturing, music publishing, and marketing fees. In some cases, the net profit of a title is split between us and the content supplier according to a contractual percentage. In many cases, we pay and recoup advances or minimum guarantees on an exclusive distribution deal in a manner similar to an exclusive licensing arrangement. While our core business remains the domestic acquisition and distribution of content on DVD, we seek to secure and exploit exclusive content with the broadest possible grant of home entertainment programming rights. As part of our strategic goal, we may finance all or part of the production of some of our entertainment content. The rights we retain in connection with our self-financed productions generally cover all territories throughout the world, all now-known and hereafter-devised video home entertainment formats, and other formats for an extended term. Because of our growing library of exclusive titles in a wide variety of genres, we believe that we are positioned to benefit from the widespread support of the traditional DVD format and the HD-DVD and/or Blu-ray Disc® high-definition formats. We intend to continue expanding our exclusive DVD library. Egami Media. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Egami Media, engages in the exclusive wholesale distribution of the digital rights to our catalogue of audio and video content. The demand for the types of programming found in our catalogue continues to increase as new retailers enter the primarily online marketplace. While big-budget theatrical programs are becoming available in limited ways online, the vast majority of available online content is still niche or affinity video titles such as classic television shows, live music, live comedy, special interest and other programs. Egami seeks to differentiate itself competitively by being a one-stop source for the large, diverse collection of entertainment represented by our digital catalogue. Egami enters into nonexclusive distribution arrangements with retail and consumer facing entities whose business models are solely or partially the digital delivery of content. Delivery will be in the form of secure encoded files with playback options being controlled by embedded Digital Rights Management (DRM). In video, the consumer will find various purchasing options that include: · Download to Own · Download to Rent (VOD) · Subscription based rental models (SVOD) Download to Own is essentially the digital equivalent of buying a DVD. Download to Rent is also referred to as VOD and is becoming a key transactional component to most of our partner retailers. Subscription based rental models (SVOD) are essentially the digital equivalent of a club-type model, where users pay recurring monthly fees in exchange for access to a library without individual transaction charges. The audio marketplace is more mature, yet audio business models continue to evolve. Egami is selling full albums, individual tracks and also supporting subscription-based access to our library of content. Additionally, Egami is working closely with several audio retailers as they develop plans to add digital video to their offerings. 4 The mobile or wireless space is also a developing channel for Egami. As technical advances occur, the delivery of video to mobile phones is becoming more commonplace. We are working with third-party content suppliers by providing video content for emerging subscription based services. Emerging retail channels for Egami include kiosk-based sale of audio and video content, delivery of video content via closed college campus networks and through public libraries, advertising supported online models and various proprietary set-top box retail initiatives. Image Entertainment (UK), Inc. In February 2005, we launched our wholly-owned subsidiary Image UK, which acts as our exclusive content acquisition agent and is focused on acquiring content for exclusive distribution in North America and throughout the world from its London office. Rights acquired with the assistance of Image UK are actually held by us. Additionally, production and distribution services are performed by our personnel out of our headquarters in Chatsworth, California. Fiscal year expenses for the leased office and related expenses, including salaries, are approximately £20,000 (approximately $34,000) per month, increasing to approximately £1,500 (approximately $2,500) per month at the end of August due to a new office lease. Home Vision Acquisition and Criterion Library of Special Edition DVD Programming. In August 2005, we acquired Home Vision Entertainment, a publisher and distributor of home entertainment programming with 130 active DVD titles, for $8.0 million in cash. In connection with the acquisition, we signed a long-term exclusive distribution agreement with The Criterion Collection for the remaining distribution rights (which were controlled by Home Vision) to Criterion’s 290-title DVD library. Prior to the signing of the agreement, Image and Home Vision shared distribution of Criterion’s programming. Film Production. With Dark Horse, we have completed principal photography and are currently in post-production on three feature films, Driftwood a ghost story about a boys’ reformatory directed by Tim Sullivan (2001 Maniacs, Detroit Rock City), Splinter, a multicultural action-adventure supernatural thriller starring Edward James Olmos and Tom Sizemore, and Monarch of the Moon, a stylized feature designed to pay homage to the classic science-fiction movies of the 1950s. Through Dark Horse, we also acquired Destination Mars, a feature similar to Monarch of the Moon. We are currently in the early development stage of a script to be directed by famed director John Landis (American Werewolf in London, Animal House, Beverly Hills Cop III, Blues Brothers, Coming to America, Into the Night, Kentucky Fried Movie, Trading Places). We have also recently begun pre-production of one additional Dark Horse project entitled My Name Is Bruce starring and to be directed by renowned genre actor Bruce Campbell. Our agreement with Graymark has yielded three films which have been delivered and are scheduled for late 2006 and early 2007 releases. These films include the horror film The Hunt directed by Fritz Kiersch (Children of the Corn) and starring veteran actor Cliff De Young (The Hunger), the thriller Surveillance starring Emmy award-winning actor Armand Assante (Paradise Alley, Unfaithfully Yours, Private Benjamin, The Mambo Kings, Fatal Instinct, Judge Dredd) and directed by Kiersch, and the vampire horror movie Souls Midnight starring Assante. We are also in production on the urban legend ghost story Fingerprints, the debut film of up-and-coming actress Kristin Cavallari (Laguna Beach), and also starring Lou Diamond Phillips (La Bamba, Stand and Deliver). With Amicus, we are in the early development stage on one horror film. The film, appropriately entitled Stuck, is based on the true story of a woman who hits a homeless man with her car and then lets him die in her garage while he is still stuck in her windshield, and is written and to be directed by well-known horror director Stuart Gordon (Re-Animator, From Beyond, Dolls). An agreement with ContentFilm has focused primarily on content acquisition, as the co-production portion of our agreement has been assigned to highly successful independent film producer Edward R. Pressman (Bad Lieutenant, Conan the Barbarian, The Cooler, The Crow, Das Boot, Sisters, Talk Radio, Thank You For Smoking). With ContentFilm, we have acquired feature films Evil Aliens and Wilderness Survival for Girls. We have completed principal photography and are in post-production on the remake of Brian De Palma’s classic thriller Sisters, which is executive produced by Ed Pressman. We are in negotiations for other films to co-produce. We are solely responsible for financing the film budgets for the Dark Horse co-productions and are co-financiers of our other co-productions. For our theatrical co-productions, we usually receive a longer distribution term and a share of the picture’s copyright. 5 Film Co-Production Budgets, funded in fiscal 2006 unless otherwise stated Dark Horse Driftwood - - $1.25 million Monarch of the Moon - $111,000 Splinter - - $437,000 My Name is Bruce - $1.5 million (fiscal 2007) John Landis Project - tentatively $3,000,000 (our commitment $1.5 million - fiscal 2007) Graymark The Hunt - - $427,000 (our funded commitment $214,000) Surveillance - - $629,000 (our funded commitment $314,000) Souls Midnight - $650,000 (our funded commitment $163,000) Fingerprints - $650,000 (our funded commitment $276,000 ) Amicus Stuck - - tentatively $2.8 million (our commitment $1.4 million - fiscal 2007) Sisters Wooster Sisters $3.5 million (our funded commitment $1.4 million) No Nonexclusive Distribution. Except for a small number of digital titles distributed by Egami, we do not generally distribute nonexclusive content, such as DVD releases of major motion pictures. Additional Value-Added Services. We provide a full range of value-added services relative to our licensed content and many of our exclusively distributed titles, including: · creation of packaging · distribution · DVD authoring and compression · for some titles, the addition of · menu design enhancements such as · video master quality control · multiple audio tracks · manufacturing · commentaries · marketing · foreign language tracks · sales · behind-the-scenes footage · music clearance · interviews · warehousing · discographies These services are typically performed in-house, with the exception of DVD, CD and UMD disc manufacturing and tape replication, package printing, and packaging of the finished product which are generally performed by third party vendors. Distribution Services. We recently launched a new initiative called Image Entertainment Distribution Services, which offers a menu of distribution services to choose from, including sales, marketing, distribution and collections to independent audio and video labels. This new initiative leverages our direct selling and retail relationships, existing distribution infrastructure, and emerging Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) capabilities. Manufacturing. Typically, a content supplier delivers a title master and artwork to us, and our in-house post-production facility creates a sub master with specifications for the necessary format and on-screen menus for each title. Our in-house authoring and compression team then generally performs the work necessary to prepare a DVD master for manufacturing. Occasionally, because of the large volume of our exclusive releases, we may use an outside facility to perform such services. Our in-house creative services department, staffed with graphic designers, copywriters and proofreaders, creates original and innovative packaging fundamental to the marketing success of our product. During fiscal 2006 and in the years prior, we used Deluxe Media Services, Inc., formerly Ritek Global Media, to manufacture and package our domestic DVD programming. We have reached an agreement in principle with Sonopress LLC to do so, subject to their final credit approval, and plan to move our replication during the second quarter of fiscal 2007. We primarily use U-Tech Media USA dba Glory Tech LLC for CD manufacturing. Sony DADC Global currently manufactures all UMD programming. 6 Marketing. Our in-house marketing department directs marketing efforts toward consumers, DVD and CD retailers, and DVD and CD player retailers. Our marketing efforts involve: · point-of-sale advertising · print advertising in trade and consumer publications · national television and radio advertising campaigns · Internet advertising, including viral and social network marketing campaigns · minimal direct response campaigns · dealer incentive programs · trade show exhibits · bulletins featuring new releases and catalogue promotions We also have account-specific marketing programs where we work directly with retailers to optimize and customize print advertising and other advertising programs to promote our exclusive product. The creation of specialized in-store displays and celebrity appearances are other examples of account-specific marketing programs. We occasionally implement Internet promotional activities that include product tie-ins, sweepstakes, and giveaways associated with online retail customers, and the creation of genre-specific boutiques within direct-to-consumer Web sites. Our Web site at www.image-entertainment.com helps promote us and our exclusive content. The Web site includes press releases, information regarding our exclusive titles, and information of general interest to the home entertainment consumer. Customers. We distribute our titles domestically through our Las Vegas, Nevada distribution center. We sell our products to: · traditional retailers · specialty retailers · Internet retailers · wholesale distributors · alternative distribution · direct-to-consumer print catalogs · direct response campaigns · subscription service/club sales · home shopping television channels · other non-traditional sales channels Some of our key sell-through customers in alphabetical order include: · AEC One Stop Group · Ingram Entertainment, Inc. · Amazon.com, Inc. · K-Mart · Barnes & Noble · Paradox Entertainment (f/k/a Vid Canada) · Baker & Taylor · Sears · Best Buy Co., Inc. · Target · Borders Group Inc. · Tower Records · Costco · Trans World Entertainment · Critic’s Choice · Wal-Mart (Anderson Merchandisers) · Handleman Company · Infinity Resources (Critics Choice, Deep Discount DVD and CD and DVDPlanet.com) 7 In addition, our key rental-retail hybrid customers are: · Blockbuster Inc. · Movie Gallery, Inc. (including Hollywood Video) · Netflix, Inc. Our special markets division is designed to take advantage of our large and diverse catalog and specifically targets niche sales opportunities. Special markets retailers to whom we have sold product in alphabetical order include: · Army and Air Force Exchange Service (a.k.a. AAFES) · Big Island Publishing · Big Lots · Columbia House · Crutchfield Corporation · Discovery Channel · Dynamic Disc Distribution · Guitar Center · Hot Topic · Island View Entertainment · Metropolitan Opera Guild · Movies 4 Sale · Overstock.com · Video Action Sports (Champs, Dick’s, Foot Locker, Sport Chalet, Sportmart, etc.) 8 On a consolidated basis, Anderson Merchandisers (who supplies Wal-Mart) accounted for 11% of our fiscal 2006 net revenues. In fiscal 2005, Anderson Merchandisers, Best Buy and AEC One Stop accounted for 17%, 12% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues, and in fiscal 2004, Best Buy and AEC One Stop accounted for 17% and 12% of our net revenues. No other customers accounted for net revenues individually in excess of 10% of our total net revenues for fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. We allow retail customers to return a portion of their unsold inventory on a quarterly basis. We reserve for estimated returns at the time the sale is recognized, based in part upon our historical returns experience and knowledge of specific product movement within distribution channels. Our inventory returns, as a percentage of our gross distribution (as opposed to net) revenues, were 21.9% in fiscal 2006, 18.8% in fiscal 2005 and 19.2% in fiscal 2004, respectively. Returns of defective product have been minimal and are generally covered by manufacturers’ warranties. As of June 1, 2006, we had approximately $3.9 million of backlog orders, 98% from DVD product, from domestic customers compared with approximately $5.0 million of backlog orders, 70% from DVD product, as of June 1, 2005. We expect to fill 100% of the backlog orders, less any cancelled orders, this fiscal year. International International Sublicensing. We hold worldwide distribution rights to over 450 of our DVD titles and over 130 of our CD titles. We have an exclusive sublicense agreement for the distribution of our DVD content, primarily music-related DVDs, with Sony BMG for Europe, Africa, and most of the Middle East, an exclusive sublicense agreement with Digital Site, an affiliate of Ray Corporation, for Japan, and an exclusive sublicense agreement with Warner Music Group for Australia and New Zealand. These agreements contain terms and conditions similar to those governing our underlying rights agreements. Sony BMG, Digital Site and Warner Music pay royalties based on either retail or wholesale revenues they generate, and are responsible for sales, taxes, marketing, publishing, manufacturing and distribution of our content in their respective territories. We have similar sublicenses with others for smaller territories. Worldwide Broadcast. Buyers of our standard and high-definition broadcast content are typically cable, pay-per-view, or satellite broadcasters, and sometimes terrestrial (free) television or in-flight/on-ship broadcasters. Under a typical broadcast license we receive payment of a one-time, fixed, non-refundable fee for a multi-year exploitation term and in many instances for a specified number of airings. With respect to pay-per-view, we typically receive a non-refundable advance against royalties that are based on a percentage of customer buys. Our obligations under broadcast licensing are usually only to provide a broadcast master of the title and to ensure that music synchronization rights are secured. We have an exclusive sales agency agreement with London-based NBD Television Ltd., who sublicenses worldwide the majority of our current broadcast television catalogue of programming (in excess of 200 programs) as well as our new release broadcast television acquisitions. NBD represents us for conventional television broadcast sales, whether standard or high-definition, including cable, pay-per-view, video on demand, satellite television, and sales to non-theatrical venues. Programs that were sublicensed to third parties for broadcast prior to January 2004 will be handled by NBD upon the expiration of the existing sublicenses. The agreement with NBD expires in January 2008. COST STRUCTURE Our most significant costs and cash expenditures relate to acquiring content for exclusive distribution and, more recently, the funding of content production or co-production for exclusive distribution. Agreements to acquire programming typically come in the form of either an exclusive license agreement, where we pay royalties for the exclusive distribution rights, or an exclusive distribution agreement, where we generally receive distribution fees and pay net profits after recoupment of our upfront costs. We generally base our offers of advances against future royalties (or, for distribution agreements, advances against future net profit payments and in many cases production funding) on the expected success of a title’s performance at retail, actual cost of the production, and competition for the title’s exclusive distribution rights. 9 Upon entering into a typical exclusive license agreement, we pay, in advance, royalties which normally become due to the content supplier 45 days following the quarter which the sale of DVD, CD, UMD and VHS units of the title to our retail customers has occurred. Royalties are contractually expressed as a percentage of net revenues. Upon our recoupment of the advance, we pay the content supplier royalty overages at the same rate. If we do not recoup our initial advance by the end of the agreement’s term, the content supplier receives no additional royalties but is not typically liable for reimbursement of our unrecouped advance. Royalty advances may be used by the content supplier to actually produce the content in cases where the content has not yet been created. Under these exclusive license agreements, we are responsible for manufacturing, packaging, menu design, authoring and compression, package design and layout, selling, marketing and distribution expenses, and sometimes for music publishing in the case of music-related DVDs and CDs. Under a typical exclusive distribution agreement, we may pay upfront fees, which are expressed as advances against future net profits, or we may pay for the cost of the content’s production in advance. Our net profits for these deals usually take the form of our distribution fee which is deducted first. Any remaining net profits after we recoup our incurred costs and additional costs such as the cost of the content’s production are generally paid to the content supplier. We may also split any remaining net profits with the content supplier according to contractual percentages. If net profits are not achieved, the content supplier receives only the production costs or distribution fees advanced, if any. Again, we recoup our incurred costs before any net profit disbursement is made to the content supplier. In addition to advances, upfront fees and production costs, the other significant costs we incur are for: · DVD and CD replication · packaging · advertising, promotion, and market development funds provided retail customers · domestic shipping costs from self-distribution of exclusive content · personnel costs · music publishing on exclusive music-related DVD and CD titles Our financial focus is on achieving long-term, sustainable growth and profitability. We also seek to improve our cash flow position in order to continue licensing, or entering into exclusive distribution agreements for, high quality DVD and other entertainment content and funding operations. COMPETITION When acquiring distribution rights for exclusive content, we continue to face increasing competition from: · Major Motion Picture Studios · Sony Pictures · Disney · Fox · Paramount · Universal · Warner · Mini-Majors · Lions Gate · The Weinstein Company · New Line · Major Music Labels · Sony BMG · EMI · Universal · Warner Music Group · Independent Music Labels · Independent DVD and CD Content Suppliers For limited retail shelf space, we also continue to face increasing competition from: 10 · major motion picture studios · independent DVD and CD suppliers · major and independent music labels who offer DVD content · other home entertainment providers Besides limited retail shelf space, we also face competition for retailer “open to buy” dollars, which are the purchasing budgets that retailers allocate to purchase new release or catalogue titles. Competition for Content We face increasing competition from other independent distribution companies, major motion picture studios and music labels in securing exclusive content license and distribution rights. Although DVD player-household penetration (through sales of stand-alone DVD players and DVD-based video game player systems) and retail shelf space for home video formats have started to reach a saturation point, companies are still viewing DVD licensing and distribution as an attractive business. Many, including New Line, Lions Gate, and several of the major studios, are expanding efforts in the DVD licensing market, sometimes in the form of direct-to-video motion pictures. Because the home video rights to most newly released and catalogue motion pictures are already owned by the major studios, the market for high-profile DVD content available to an independent supplier is limited. Moreover, the market for high-profile music-related DVD content is also limited as major and independent record labels continue to increase the number of music-related titles released on DVD through their own labels. In light of the increase in demand and limitation in supply, obtaining quality DVD content at reasonable prices is becoming ever more challenging. Our internal analyses and forecasts, which are designed with the goal of timely advance recoupment, attempt to limit the upfront advances against future royalties or, for distribution agreements, production and net profit payments we are willing to pay to secure content rights. Accordingly, we may not be able to remain competitive against offers from competitors who may at times be willing to pay larger advances. This challenge is compounded when competitors who lack broad expertise in the field of DVD licensing occasionally offer advances or other terms for content which we believe to be unrealistic based upon our own internal forecasts and historical experience in particular genres. Although such unrealistic offers might have adverse effects on these competitors’ businesses in the medium- and long-term, the short-term effect appears to be an artificial inflation in content valuations, which effectively decreases our ability to obtain quality content. Additionally, as we see more and more opportunities for higher-profile content, we are increasingly finding ourselves in competition with major motion picture studios, the “mini-majors” and major music labels, who tend to have greater financial resources and the ability to offer higher advances by leveraging their market power (including significant influence on retailer shelf space allotment) with retailers in order to obtain larger quantities of product purchases. With that said, we believe that we will continue to compete successfully in obtaining exclusive rights to home entertainment content. This is due in large part to our ability to offer an array of other assets to our program suppliers, including: · the high quality of expertise and service our employees provide · our status as an independent which allows freedom from the major labels, more creative control to the content creator, comparatively fewer obstacles in content creation, marketing and distribution, and comparatively simpler accounting for royalties and net profits to the supplier · our long history and solid reputation of working effectively with artists, their management and other valuable suppliers of entertainment programming · the quality of our finished titles · our specialized marketing expertise in areas such as comedy, urban, Latin, music-related, Broadway and special interest titles · our wide-ranging in-house services · our direct and long-standing relationships with mass merchants and traditional and online retailers of entertainment titles 11 Competition for Retail Shelf Space Our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a growing supply of entertainment content from other suppliers. New DVD releases generally exceed 200 titles a week. We believe this competition can be especially challenging for independent labels like us, because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales velocity in the millions of units, and typically require more shelf space to support. In light of the impact of major studio releases, our expenses with respect to providing market development funds and cooperative advertising dollars to our retail customers for items such as in-store displays and store circulars continue to increase, even as the availability of these opportunities continues to decrease. This selling of shelf real estate, whether real or virtual, is becoming more expensive as the total number of DVD releases continues to grow. With the exception of our more popular new titles and top-selling catalogue titles, it can be a challenge to obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers who comprise our core customers. Additionally, even though the shelf space in many retail stores may not be shrinking, it is no longer growing at the rates we had previously experienced, and we are also beginning to perceive a retailer trend toward greater visibility for titles at the expense of quantity (i.e. “face out” rather than “spine out” DVD placement). This has the effect of reducing the total number of titles actually carried by a retailer, and since we tend to carry and acquire many different titles, this trend may have a disproportionate effect on us compared to the major studios. Retailers are also increasingly looking for studios and independents to pay to secure display and shelf space within their stores. Even some successful Internet retailers now require paid participation in these types of programs in order to ensure visibility and positioning on their Web sites. Some of these programs can cost as much as 6% or more of a retailer’s total order, although we may also realize significant advertising and marketing benefits from such programs, especially if they grant competitive benefits over other studios and independents that are unable or unwilling to pay. As competition in our industry continues to increase, we expect that more retailers will adopt these types of programs, which would result in downward pressure on our gross margins. Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) Under a VMI system, product suppliers are responsible for monitoring, stocking, and fulfilling directly to individual retail stores and outlets. Larger retailers, who have been transacting business via VMI with the major studios for years, are starting to require smaller independents (i.e. product suppliers other than major studios, music labels and “mini-majors”) to adopt this method of inventory management. An existing large retail customer of ours plans to restrict content suppliers from shipping product directly to its stores unless they carry a required minimum number of national titles. Image, along with other independents, has formed a consortium of program suppliers to consolidate shipments in order to satisfy this retailer. Under this arrangement, each member of the consortium retains its existing direct-selling and direct-billing relationship with this retailer. Our VMI group is currently one of only three independent groups partnering with this retailer. Consortium shipments to this customer will consolidate products from all suppliers in this group, which will result in larger shipments with freight costs shared among the members. We have fully implemented all of the necessary VMI software and systems, and are currently in the final stages of deploying our VMI program with this customer. We expect our VMI system to be fully tested and deployed by August 1, 2006. We will evaluate the possibility of deploying our VMI system at other retail customers as opportunities arise. With respect to long-term benefits, we expect the implementation of VMI relationships with retail customers to: · sell more units and reduce returned items by better matching inventory to real-time demand · reduce potential overproduction and excess inventory quantities by more accurately forecasting orders · reduce processing and warehousing fees by maintaining a leaner supply chain · increase our importance as a direct supplier of participating retail partners Competition for Retailer Open to Buy Dollars We compete with other content suppliers for limited open to buy dollars allocated by retailers to purchase new release or catalogue DVD and CD titles. Open to buy dollars are becoming more scarce for independents like us, since such dollars are often devoted to high-profile new releases from major studios, particularly during the holiday season. Reduced wholesale DVD pricing instituted by the major studios and labels, coupled with their ongoing catalogue campaigns and marketing muscle, has also increased competition for open to buy dollars. Most studios and labels are subsidiaries of much larger media conglomerates that have financial resources far greater than ours. 12 We believe that titles from an independent content supplier like us continue to be attractive to retailers because of the gross margins retained by the retailers from the sale of independent titles. In contrast, there is a great deal of pricing competition among retailers for the new release theatrical blockbusters, as such major hits are often advertised as loss leaders to bring in retail traffic. We do not sell new release major studio titles. Increasing Competition As our industry matures, with DVD set-top and DVD game player penetration of U.S. television households having exceeded 70% at the close of calendar 2005, and the amount of retail space allocated for DVD programming leveling off, the competition level among content suppliers will continue to rise. The major studios remain consistent and prolific in their ability to bring new theatrical titles to retailers. They have large libraries of content to release on DVD. New independent suppliers are continually emerging, further adding to the competition. The additional promotional opportunities and open to buy dollars may be severely compromised by the new major theatrical programming, new independent suppliers and the vast catalogues of content controlled by the major studios. Industry Trends According to Adams Media Research (Hollywood Aftermarket report dated September 30, 2005), DVD set-top penetration of television households will reach 72.5% through December 31, 2005, excluding DVD game players, with 81.0 million of 111.7 million television households having at least one DVD player. Adams Media expects this penetration to reach 90.2% within the next five years. This represents an estimated 4.5% annual compound growth rate in DVD set-top player households. Additionally, Adams Media estimates that DVD game player households without a set-top DVD player amounted to 5.9 million, or 5.3% of television households, through December 31, 2005. They expect this number to decline to 0.9 million, or 0.8% of television households, within the next five years. According to Adams Media (Hollywood Aftermarket report dated September 30, 2005), consumer DVD sell-through spending will increase 12.3% to $17.3 billion in 2005, from $15.4 billion in 2004. Consumer DVD sell-through spending is expected to grow 34.7% to $23.3 billion through 2010, a compound annual growth rate of approximately 6.1%. Net supplier revenue from DVD sell-through was $14.0 billion in 2005, up 11.1% from $12.6 billion in 2004. Net supplier revenue from DVD sell-through is expected to grow 31.4% to $18.4 billion through 2010, a compound annual growth rate of approximately 5.6%. Annual DVD disc buys per DVD set-top household were 14.8 discs in 2005, at an average price of $14.69 per disc, slightly lower than 15.8 discs per household in 2004, at a lower average price than 2004’s $15.01 per disc. VHS sell-through consumer spending continues to decline rapidly, down from $1.2 billion in 2004 to $475 million in 2005. We believe the continuing popularity of relatively high-priced television content on DVD illustrates the consumer appetite for non-feature DVD content. Catalogue (i.e. all content—including newly produced specialty and non-feature content—that does not qualify as a new release feature film) DVD content is necessarily our focus in light of our diverse array of general and specialty content and the unavailability of new release feature films to us. Adams Media reports (Hollywood Aftermarket report dated April 4, 2006) that the new release feature market share of revenues continues to grow more slowly than catalogue market share. In 2004, 50.2% of total DVD revenues (including rental) were represented by new release features, while 49.8% represented catalogue categories. In 2005, only 48.5% were features while catalogue grew to 51.5%. As evidenced by our selling patterns, mass merchants, warehouse-style retailers, Internet retailers and DVD distributors are growing their DVD revenues at the expense of traditional mall-based and stand-alone DVD-only retailers. The overall economic climate and the uncertainty surrounding some retailers’ efforts to reorganize or restructure their businesses may lead to an increased risk of customer bankruptcy within the DVD retail space as well as an increased percentage of product returns to us. Indeed, the bankruptcy of Musicland Holding Corp. in January 2006 appeared to confirm this current reality. The Musicland bankruptcy filing had a significant impact on the DVD industry, particularly on independents like us who were unsecured creditors of Musicland. We have also witnessed higher returns in the months following the Musicland filing as a result of retailers becoming even more cautious and Trans World Entertainment Corp. (who acquired Musicland and its inventories) consolidating its combined DVD stocks. Our product returns, as a percentage of our gross distribution revenues, were 21.9% in fiscal 2006, 18.8% in fiscal 2005 and 19.2% in fiscal 2004, respectively. 13 DVD retailers who also specialize in CD sales are becoming increasingly vulnerable to mounting pressure from warehouse-style and online discounters, who now routinely offer CDs for sale, and from illegal downloading of music from the Internet and other music piracy. Many CD retailers have tried to reduce the impact of these downward pressures by also selling DVDs, video games and other merchandise. Nevertheless, as the Musicland bankruptcy again demonstrates, reorganizations, restructurings, and a significant number of store closures among CD retailers appear to support a continuing industry trend toward consolidations and reductions within the retail space, including retail space dedicated to DVD. Meanwhile, our DVD and CD revenues from mass merchants and warehouse-style retailers have increased. The larger retailers typically return titles which do not meet their internal minimum sales velocities. To save costs, other retailers with multiple retail locations return titles with low sales velocities in a particular store back to their vendors, like us, and reorder the same titles for sale in a different retail store. To save the costs of returns processing at their own distribution centers, retailers generally require their vendors to incur such costs. This practice has contributed to our higher returns percentages in recent years. We believe that the DVD and CD return rates experienced by major studios and record labels are substantially higher than our return rates, due to the sheer volume of big-budget theatrical and audio new releases sold into retail. As noted above, our VMI system should improve sales and market data available to us. We believe that the VMI system should increase sales velocity and decrease returns and shipping costs, although implementation has not yet occurred. We expect our VMI system to be fully deployed at a major retail customer by our second fiscal quarter, and the projected cost of the system’s software will be shared, at least, initially by the consortium meeting this retailer’s minimum stocking requirements. The typical DVD buying consumer has largely shifted from a catalogue programming-focused early adopter to a mass market buyer driven by high-profile, big-budget theatrical films. Both major studio and independent DVD suppliers now see that the primary drivers of revenues are new releases, which generate both retail and consumer interest and also help drive the sale of catalogue programming. We have a diverse catalogue of content, and according to DVD Release Report Revised 5/4/05, we are the third-largest source for music on DVD with 577 titles in active release, behind only the “majors” Sony BMG and Universal, and we are the top source for special interest programming on DVD with 494 titles in active release. We typically add an average of over 30 new DVD titles per month, with content spanning over many genres, to our current catalogue of over 3,000 active DVD titles. In addition, we typically add an average of five new CD titles per month, and our current active catalogue contains approximately 200 audio titles. Sales of our catalogue titles are affected by the strength of our new releases, continued customer demand and the availability of retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. TRADEMARKS We have obtained federal registrations of our trademarks: · Image · Image Entertainment · the Image Entertainment logo · Image Music Group We have filed a federal trademark application for “Egami Media a Subsidiary of Image Entertainment.” It is our policy to protect and defend our trademark rights. EMPLOYEES As of June 1, 2006, we had 187 full-time employees and two part-time employees employed by us, four full-time employees employed by Egami Media, and two full-time employees employed by Image UK. Ten of our employees, including all of our executive officers and senior vice presidents, are covered by employment agreements, with the remainder being at-will employees. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Executive officers serve at the pleasure of our board of directors. There is no family relationship between any executive officer or director. The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers at June 1, 2006: Executive Officer Age Position & Background Martin W. Greenwald 64 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President since April 1981. Mr. Greenwald is a 1964 graduate of Fairleigh Dickinson University. Mr. Greenwald has served as a board member of the Permanent Charities Committee of the Entertainment Industries, an umbrella organization which coordinates charitable contributions from the entertainment industries. David A. Borshell 41 Chief Operating Officer since July 2000. Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Operations from December 1994 to June 2000. Prior to 1994, Mr. Borshell has held various positions at Image since starting as an Account Executive in February 1986. Mr. Borshell is a contributor to the Digital Entertainment Group, an industry trade association devoted to fostering consumer awareness of the DVD format, as well as future digital home entertainment formats. Jeff M. Framer 45 Chief Financial Officer since April 1993. Controller from September 1990 to March 1993. Mr. Framer was a Senior Manager, KPMG LLP, from July 1989 to September 1990; and a Manager, KPMG LLP, from July 1988 to June 1989. Mr. Framer received his B.S. in Business Administration and Accounting Theory and Practice from California State University at Northridge in 1984. Mr. Framer is a Certified Public Accountant. 14 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims, including proceedings under government laws and regulations relating to employment and tax matters. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these matters, it is the opinion of management, based on consultations with legal counsel, that the ultimate disposition of known proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this report, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Risks Relating to Our Business. We Have a High Concentration of Sales From Relatively Few Titles. Our top five fiscal 2006 new release exclusive titles Ron White: You Can’t Fix Stupid DVD and CD, Chicago and Earth Wind & Fire: Live at the Greek DVD, Kiss: Rock The Nation Live DVD, the original Twilight Zone TV series: Seasons 3 DVD, and Beef 3 DVD accounted for approximately 11% of our fiscal 2006 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2006 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 15% of our fiscal 2006 net revenues. Although catalogue sales of these titles continue to be relatively strong, sales for these titles nevertheless have decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire. Net revenues from new release DVD titles, where a new release title is defined as released during fiscal 2006, accounted for approximately 51% of fiscal 2006 net DVD revenues and net revenues from catalogue DVD titles, where catalogue is defined as a title first released in a previous fiscal year, accounted for approximately 49% of fiscal 2006 net DVD revenues. Revenues from new release and catalogue DVD titles accounted for approximately 65% and 35% of fiscal 2005 net DVD revenues, respectively. If we cannot acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity, our future net revenues would be negatively impacted. We Have a High Concentration of Sales to Relatively Few Customers. For the year ended March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers (who supplies Wal-Mart) accounted for 11% of our net revenues. For the year ended March 31, 2005, Anderson Merchandisers, Best Buy and AEC One Stop Group accounted for approximately 17%, 12%, and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. At March 31, 2006, Anderson Merchandisers and AEC One Stop accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivables. Additionally, our top five customers accounted for over 39% of our fiscal 2006 net revenues. Any combination of these customers filing for bankruptcy or significantly reducing their purchases of our programming would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our top 25 customers accounted for approximately 83% of our fiscal 2006 net revenues. We are not an exclusive supplier to any of our retail customers, and there is no guarantee that we will continue recognizing significant revenue from sales to any particular customer. If we are unable to maintain the sale of our titles at their current levels to any these five customers, and are unable to find other customers to replace these sales, there would be a negative impact on our revenues and future profitability. We May Need Additional Funding to Continue Acquiring Desirable Programming. Availability of working capital is a substantial factor in our ability to produce and/or acquire new content. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. We may need to raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content or to create content we find desirable. Should additional funds be raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders may be reduced. If adequate funds are not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, and/or respond to competitive pressures in the industry. Failure of Our Strategic Alliances Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Business. We have co-production deals in place with Dark Horse, Graymark and Amicus, and we plan to continue our strategy of developing key alliances with other third party content producers. We will rely on our co-producers to develop and produce films. Particularly when produced by independent filmmakers, each film is a separate business venture with its own management, employees, equipment and budgetary requirements. There are substantial risks associated with film production, including contract problems with, or disability of, directors, actors and other key artistic and technical personnel, weather and other delays, damage to sets, equipment or film, and the inability of production personnel to comply with budgetary or scheduling requirements. Such problems could materially increase the cost of production, increase the amount of time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues, 15 or cause the project to be abandoned at any stage if further expenditures do not appear commercially feasible. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our strategic alliances, and any failure of our present and future alliances to produce commercially viable content at an acceptable cost could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to find further desirable strategic alliances as we continue pursuing new co-production deals and similar relationships. Our Current DVD and CD Genre Concentrations May Become Unpopular With Our Retail Customers and End Consumers, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business. During fiscal 2005, our DVD title genre concentration was heavily weighted toward music-related DVD programming. During fiscal 2006 we were unable to further grow our audio business. Our audio business generated approximately 8% of our total net revenues, compared to approximately 10% in fiscal 2005. We may not be able to successfully continue to produce or acquire content in the same genres, or that we will achieve the same strength within the genres we were successful with in fiscal 2006. If we cannot compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile DVD and CD content, our business may be adversely affected. Inventory Obsolescence May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain a substantial investment in DVD and CD inventory, and if we overestimate the demand for a particular title, we may retain significant quantities of that title in our warehouse. Retained inventory occupies valuable storage space and may become obsolete as our distribution term for the title expires. Although we may sell such inventory at a steeply discounted price toward the end of the distribution term in order to recoup our manufacturing, storage and other costs, there is no guarantee that a market will exist for a given title, even at the steeply discounted price. Additionally, our license and/or distribution agreements sometimes contain terms, such as minimum royalties per unit and music publishing fees, which effectively prevent us from steeply discounting the price on some titles. The Transition to a New DVD Manufacturer May Adversely Affect Our Business. We intend to transfer our replication from Deluxe to Sonopress during our second quarter of fiscal 2007 ending September 30, 2006. Any failure of Sonopress to manufacture and deliver our product in a timely manner and with the same consistent quantity and quality that we and our customers have come to expect may adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, should the need arise, we may be adversely affected by the period of time that we would need to direct manufacturing duties to another company. Problems Distributing Our Programming Internationally May Adversely Affect Our Business. We distribute our programming internationally. As a result, our business may be subject to various risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. Risks faced in distributing our programming internationally include: cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, changes in laws and policies affecting international trade (including taxes), credit risk, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and controls, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection, terrorism, changing retailer and consumer tastes and preferences with regard to our programming, differing degrees of protection of our intellectual property, cultural barriers, and potential instability of foreign economies and governments, and of which may adversely affect our international sales. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. The Majority of International Revenues Are Generated By Three Sublicensees. Revenues generated from our international business segment are primarily derived from the manufacturing, marketing and distribution efforts of Sony BMG, Warner Music Group and Digital Site. Should any of Sony BMG, Warner or Digital Site default on their respective sublicense agreements with us or fail to successfully perform, an important part of our business strategy, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. We Have Direct and Indirect Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Although our Sony BMG and Digital Site sublicense agreements are U.S. Dollar denominated, with these parties reporting to us and paying us in U.S. Dollars, the underlying Sony BMG sales transactions are in Euros and the underlying Digital Site sales transactions are in Yen. On June 1, 2006, the Euro was equivalent to approximately U.S. $1.29 and the Yen was equivalent to approximately U.S. $0.008917. Should the U.S. Dollar strengthen compared to either the Euro or the Yen, our sublicensors’ reported royalties to us on a title-by-title basis and in the aggregate would decline (assuming consistent unit sales) and thus reduce our revenues recognized. We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses. We sustained a net loss for fiscal 2006, and although we were profitable in fiscal 2005, we also sustained net losses for the three fiscal years preceding 16 fiscal 2005. Our accumulated deficit at March 31, 2006, was $9.7 million. Due to the inherent unpredictability of high-profile content acquisition and competition for limited retail shelf space, we may incur losses again in the future. Inability to Maintain Relationships with Our Program Suppliers and Vendors May Adversely Affect Our Business. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of those DVDs for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. We can give no assurances, however, that titles in production which have been financed by us will be timely delivered as agreed or of the expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery, including rights clearances, could negatively impact the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. We can give no assurance that such content will ultimately be purchased in internally forecasted quantities by our retail customers or ultimately desired by the end-consumer. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to renew these exclusive rights as existing agreements with program suppliers expire. We also cannot assure you that our current program suppliers will continue to support the DVD format in accordance with our exclusive agreements, that our current content suppliers will continue to license titles to us on the current terms or on terms favorable to us, or that we will be able to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive titles in a timely and efficient manner. The Full Exploitation of Our Rights Requires Us to Conduct Business in Areas Where Our Expertise Is Limited. In order to fully exploit some of the rights we have acquired, we are required to conduct business in sectors (e.g. Internet, rental, broadcast, video on demand, in-flight, satellite) where we are not as experienced as we are in the DVD and home video sectors. Accordingly, when exploiting such sectors in which we are less experienced, we may realize a greater proportion of costs, or we may not realize as much of a proportion of revenue, as we would in the DVD and home video sectors. Failure to Effectively Implement Our Sales and Marketing Efforts May Adversely Affect Revenues. Our sales team may be unable to continue to successfully compete against the more extensive and well-funded sales operations of our current and future competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues. Loss of Key Personnel May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success greatly depends on the performance of our executive management, including President and Chief Executive Officer Martin Greenwald, Chief Operating Officer David Borshell, and Chief Financial Officer Jeff Framer, as well as our five senior vice presidents responsible for the critical areas of content acquisition, legal, marketing & product development, operations, and sales. The loss of the services of key persons of our executive and senior management could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We May Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Warehouse and Distribution Facility, and Our Business Could Be Harmed. Domestic wholesale distribution of our exclusive programming is fulfilled from a single warehouse and distribution facility in Las Vegas, Nevada. If we are unable to operate this facility for any reason, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict sales increases or declines, we may not manage our facility in an optimal way, which may result in excess inventory, warehousing and distribution problems. Our failure to handle inventory properly could result in unexpected costs, delays and harm to our business and reputation. Occurrence of Events for Which We Are Not Insured May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against various risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in types and amounts that we believe to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may elect to limit coverage or not to carry insurance for some risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance in light of the steep increase in premiums in Southern California after the Northridge earthquake on January 17, 1994. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flows and overall profitability. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Our Success Depends on the Unpredictable Commercial Success of Our Programming. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure 17 activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Our success will depend in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time, which may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Timing and timeliness are also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g. an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Decreasing Retail Shelf Space May Limit Sales of Our Programming. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent content suppliers for limited retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. Although the amount of retail shelf space for DVDs had previously been growing in approximate correlation to the growth rate in penetration of DVD players, the leveling off of DVD player penetration has resulted in a similar leveling off in retail shelf space growth. It is within this changing environment that our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a growing supply of entertainment content. Because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales velocity in the millions of units, which typically require more shelf space to support, we may not be able to afford or obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers that are our core customers, which could result in decreased revenues and gross margins. See “Competition” above. DVD Sales Are Not Sustaining the Same Level of Growth as Before. We believe that consumer interest in the DVD format is due partly to interest in building the consumer’s personal DVD library of desired entertainment programming. Although our exclusive titles have generally shown stable sales over extended periods, as consumers build their DVD libraries, or with the introduction of new home entertainment formats, DVD sales may decline and adversely affect our operations. In addition, the leveling off of DVD player penetration has clearly resulted in a similar leveling off in DVD sales growth. See “Industry Trends” above. Our Film Production Efforts May Not be Financially Successful. Our co-produced films are more expensive to create than our DVD co-productions, and the time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues is longer. While much of our programming is sold to retailers on a sell-through basis, the financial success of our filmed programming will depend on our ability to generate higher sales to retailers who primarily rent programming such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery, Hollywood Entertainment (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Movie Gallery) and Netflix, as well as to mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Costco and Target. Our filmed programming may not ultimately be as desirable to our target customers as we would hope, which would lead to lower than expected sales, decreased profit margins or losses. Failure to Effectively Implement a Transition to Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) May Adversely Affect Our Business. Larger retailers are starting to move toward a VMI system whereby independent suppliers like us would be responsible for monitoring, stocking and fulfilling directly to individual retail stores and outlets. We currently have one major customer who is requiring VMI in the near future, and other customers are likely to follow suit. We have fully implemented all the necessary VMI software and systems and are currently in the final stages of deploying our program at this retail customer (expected to be fully deployed August 1, 2006). We will evaluate additional opportunities to deploy our VMI system at other retail customers. We cannot assure you that other implementations with other customers will be done in a timely and effective manner or that the VMI software we have implemented will be acceptable to other retail customers. Implementation of VMI requires capital expenditures for initial setup, installation and integration. In addition, ongoing fees will be paid for software maintenance/support, item planning, order management and picking, packing, labeling and shipping of product. Failure to implement VMI in a timely manner with other customers could result in decreased opportunities for shelf space or decreased margins, and may require us to sell to VMI customers indirectly through third-parties who have already implemented VMI. While we should be able to add other customers without significant additional costs or time once we implement VMI, there can be no assurance this will be the case, and VMI implementation may require additional freight charges as inventory is sent directly to retail stores and outlets in smaller packages with greater frequency. Conflicting High-Definition DVD Formats May Cause Inefficiencies. Currently, two major platforms are competing to become the dominant high-definition format, and talks to unify the platforms have been unsuccessful. The HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc® platforms have both recently launched. For many of our titles, we hold rights to both platforms, but simultaneously supporting both platforms 18 will cause increased production costs and decreased efficiencies with respect to inventory management and sales. Moreover, competing platforms may cause a delay in high-definition player market penetration, and mainstream acceptance of high-definition DVD in general, as consumers may decide to wait and see which platform prevails before purchasing a player. We May Not Be Able to Keep Pace with Technological Advances. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments. Because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. It is also impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on our ability to compete effectively in a changing market. An Increase In Product Returns May Adversely Affect Our Business. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Our allowances for sales returns may not be adequate to cover potential returns in the future, particularly in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. Our experience over two of the past three years has been one of increasing return rates, and we expect this trend to continue. Decreasing Retail Prices for DVDs May Negatively Impact Our Revenues. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we are able to adopt. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. Illegal Piracy May Reduce Our Revenues. The music industry is facing a major challenge in the form of illegal piracy resulting from Internet downloading and/or CD recorders. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. Although we currently derive only 8% of our revenues from audio CDs, we are hopeful that our proportional revenues in this sector will increase. Additionally, according to In-Stat, DVD recorders are gradually gaining greater market penetration: shipments of personal video recorders (PVR) reached 19 million in calendar 2005, a 60% increase over calendar 2004. As DVD recorders, PVRs and high-speed Internet connections become more popular, and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core DVD business. Others’ Failure to Promote Our Programming May Adversely Affect Our Business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of programming which we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular music concert, feature film or related product. We may not control the manner in which a particular artist, film or related product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding DVD or CD release. Although artists, record companies, studios and producers have a financial interest in the success of any such concerts or films distributed by us, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. Additionally, the availability of retailer programs relating to product placement, co-op advertising and market development funds, and our ability and willingness to pay for such programs, are also important with respect to promoting our exclusive titles. If DVD Cannot Compete Successfully with Other Formats of Home Entertainment, Our Revenues May Be Negatively Impacted. The DVD format competes with other formats of in-home entertainment, such as network, syndicated, cable and pay-per-view television, and home satellite systems. The DVD format also competes with new and emerging technologies in the entertainment industry, such as entertainment programming on the Internet, video on demand, high-definition television, digital videotape, and optical discs with greater storage capacity. These alternate home entertainment formats and emerging content delivery technologies could negatively impact the overall market for our DVD sales, especially if we are unable to continue to adapt and exploit the development and advancement of such technology. 19 If We Cannot Continue to Secure DVD License and Distribution Rights, Our Business May Be Materially Adversely Affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to secure DVD and other license and distribution rights on terms acceptable to us. See “Competition” above. Major motion picture studios have normally not granted, nor are they expected to grant, exclusive DVD licenses to us for new releases and popular catalogue titles. Instead, the major motion picture studios will most likely continue to sell DVD titles directly to retailers. We expect to continue to license exclusive DVD and other home entertainment format content, but we cannot assure you that we can remain competitive against licensing entities with greater financial resources or that independent program suppliers will not distribute their programming themselves. In addition, our success will continue to be dependent upon our ability to identify and secure rights to exclusive content that appeal to consumers. We May Not Possess Satisfactory Rights in Our Properties. Although we require satisfactory chain of title information to our exclusively licensed content, the risk exists that some programs may have a defective chain of title. The validity and ownership of rights to some titles can be uncertain and may be contested by third parties. Our Results of Operations Fluctuate Based on Seasonality and Variability. We have generally experienced higher sales of DVDs and CDs in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31 due to increased consumer spending associated with the year-end holidays. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results of any future periods. In addition to seasonality issues, other factors have contributed to variability in our DVD and CD net revenues on a quarterly basis. These factors include: · the popularity of exclusive titles in release during the quarter; · late delivery or non-delivery of DVD or CD content or rights clearances by our content providers; · our marketing and promotional activities; · our rights and distribution activities; · the availability of retailer shelf-space; · the level of retailer open to buy dollars; · the extension, termination or non-renewal of existing license and distribution rights; and · general economic changes affecting the buying habits of our customers, particularly those changes affecting consumer demand for home entertainment-hardware, packaged media and digital content Protecting and Defending against Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our ability to compete in the home entertainment industry depends, in part, upon successful protection of our proprietary and intellectual property. We protect our property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in some jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions of our distribution, there are no copyright and/or trademark protections available. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or portions or applications of our intended productions. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the resulting diversion of resources could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. From time to time, we may also receive claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Regardless of the validity or the success of the claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Stock. Our Second-Largest Shareholder Has Nominated a Competing Slate of Directors for Our Upcoming Annual Meeting. Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. is our second-largest shareholder, holding approximately 4 million shares representing approximately 19% of the company. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Lions Gate states that it “believes Image’s current Board is not acting in the best interests of Image and its stockholders” in light of our independent committee’s October 31, 2005, decision to reject Lions Gate’s $4.00 per share offer to purchase all of our outstanding shares. On June 5, 2006, Delaware’s Court of Chancery ruled that the classification of our Board of Directors will be effective beginning with the upcoming annual stockholders’ meeting to be held on October 10, 2006. Lions Gate has nominated a complete slate of potential Board members to compete for the six seats 20 up for election. Should Lions Gate’s slate obtain more votes than our existing slate of directors who are up for re-election, then the composition of the Board of Directors will change, which will likely result in a change to our overall strategic direction. Lions Gate’s disclosure may encourage others to make similar or different proposals. If such a transaction were to occur, owners of shares of our common stock would become owners of another company’s stock, and be subject to all of the risks and uncertainties of that company including those disclosed in any public filings with the SEC. If our board of directors or its special committee determine the proposal is unfavorable, they may adopt additional defensive measures. In addition, future purchases or sales of our stock by Lions Gate, or by third parties based on speculation, new reports, or future public filings relating to the proposal or our response, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Lions Gate may decide at any time to sell all or a significant portion of its shares of our stock, particularly if its slate of nominees is rejected by our stockholders, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall dramatically. Our Stock Price May Be Subject to Substantial Volatility, and You May Lose All or a Substantial Part of Your Investment. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ National Market®. There is a limited public float, and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. Over the last year, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $2.68 and $5.36 per share on volume ranging from 2,240 to over 4.7 million shares per day. As a result, the current price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, without limitation, the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, and actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, including Lions Gate, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. Any Future Sales of Equity May Significantly Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We currently have S-3 and S-4 registration statements for the issuance of our securities in exchange for either cash or other securities on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. We May Incur Increased Costs as a Result of Laws and Regulations Relating to Corporate Governance Matters. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by NASDAQ, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. If our public float exceeds $75 million at the end of our second fiscal quarter on September 30, 2006, we will become an accelerated filer and be subject to additional regulatory requirements, including Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley which would require us to include in our annual report for the period ending March 31, 2007 a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting and an accompanying auditor’s report. The additional costs and efforts to do so could be substantial. If we remain a non-accelerated filer, we will not have to comply until March 31, 2008. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations. 