ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 (or Annual Report) includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Other than statements of historical fact, all statements made in this Annual Report are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements regarding industry prospects, future results of operations or financial position, and statements of our intent, belief and current expectations about our strategic direction, prospective and future results and condition. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “continue,” “future,” “intend,” “project” or similar words. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that are inherently difficult to predict, which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from our expectations, forecasts and assumptions. Unless otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Risks Relating to Our Business The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Because of our limited capital resources, coupled with a history of losses, negative working capital, maturing loan agreement on October 25, 2010 and negative cash flows, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Annual Report that expresses substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern (or Going Concern Opinion). The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. In future years, the receipt of a Going Concern Opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm would result in a default under our loan agreement, as amended, with Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Western), a Wells Fargo Company (or Wachovia), upon delivery of the opinion to Wachovia for any fiscal year other than fiscal 2010. Wachovia provided us with a waiver that the Going Concern Opinion for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 will not, in and of itself, result in an event of default under the loan agreement. However, any future defaults under our loan agreement, if not waived or cured, would automatically trigger a cross-default under our other debt agreements, thereby adversely impacting our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern could also adversely affect our relationships with suppliers or customers, which could further exacerbate our current liquidity issues and impact our ability to continue as a going concern, and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. While our use of cash declined in fiscal 2010, our sales were insufficient to improve our liquidity. There is a significant risk that we may not be able to generate or raise enough additional funds to remain operational for an indefinite period of time. Our liquidity substantially depends on our ability to borrow against our revolving line of credit. Our cash collections are deposited into a lockbox with Wachovia, the lender under our revolving line of credit. The deposited cash receipts are automatically swept to reduce our outstanding loan balance. Currently, all of our operating working capital needs are financed through borrowings under our line of credit. If Wachovia does not provide funding under our line of credit due to (i) the occurrence of an event of default, as defined in the loan agreement, (ii) non-compliance with our covenants, or (iii) our borrowing to the fullest extent of the line, our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Additionally, delays or any failure to collect our trade accounts receivable, upon which our borrowing availability is entirely based, would have a negative impact on our borrowing availability and liquidity. If we are unable to obtain funding under our line of credit, we will have to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. 12 Table of Contents Failure to replace our revolving line of credit would negatively impact our business, results of operations and liquidity. Our revolving line of credit with Wachovia currently expires on October 25, 2010. While we are reviewing revolving credit line options, including negotiating a new agreement with Wachovia, we may not be able to replace the line of credit, and any new revolving credit line may be on less favorable terms and conditions compared to our current credit facility. Failure to obtain a replacement revolving line of credit would negatively impact our business, results of operations and liquidity because our revolving line of credit has been one of our primary sources of liquidity. If we are unable to replace our expiring revolving line of credit, we will need to seek additional debt or equity financing on terms that may be less favorable to us than the current line of credit and which may result in increased fiscal interest payment obligations, restrictive covenants, dilution to our stockholders and the granting of superior rights to the investors. Our credit facility contains covenants that may limit the way we conduct business. Our $20 million credit facility with Wachovia contains various covenants limiting our ability to: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · pay dividends and make other distributions; · pre-pay any subordinated indebtedness; · make investments and other restricted payments; · make capital expenditures; · enter into merger or acquisition transactions; and · sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional debt financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Under our credit facility, we are also required to maintain a minimum amount of borrowing availability. At March 31 2010, we had availability in excess of the minimum amount of borrowing availability. As of June 1, 2010, our borrowing ability was $2.0 million ($3.5 million based upon eligible accounts receivable less the current $1.5 million minimum requirement). Additionally, our credit facility includes language that states that a material adverse change in our business, assets or prospects would be considered an “event of default.” If we are unable to comply with the covenants, or satisfy the financial ratio and other tests, or should an event of default occur, as determined and invoked by Wachovia, a default may occur under our credit facility. Unless we are able to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver with Wachovia, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition, depending upon our outstanding balance at the time. We have a history of (and may continue to incur) losses, limited working capital and limited access to financing. We will need additional funding to continue acquiring desirable programming and to continue as a going concern. We sustained operating and net losses in fiscal 2010 and 2009. We had an accumulated deficit of $54.1 million and a working capital deficit of $6.2 million at March 31, 2010. Our cash requirements continue to exceed the level of cash generated by operations. We are past due on our trade accounts payable and royalty and distribution fee obligations. Accordingly, we have limited working capital. We must raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content or to create content we find desirable, particularly with respect to our competition for home entertainment rights to feature films, and to continue as a going concern. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. Because of our history of losses and negative cash flows, our ability to obtain adequate financing on satisfactory terms may be limited. Our ability to raise financing through sales of equity securities depends on general market conditions and the demand for our common stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital through the sale of equity securities, and if our stock has a low market price at the time of any sale, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. If adequate financing is not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures in the industry, which may further jeopardize our ability to continue operations as a going concern. 13 Table of Contents We generate significant amounts of net revenue for programming from one content supplier, the loss of which would adversely impact our business. We depend on the exclusive distribution of programming from The Criterion Collection, which contributed approximately 29% and 24% of our net revenues from programming in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Should liquidity issues cause us to default on our payment obligations under our exclusive distribution agreement, Criterion may terminate our distribution rights, which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic slowdown may continue to adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current global economic downturn has had a significant negative impact on our revenues and may continue to do so. As consumers have reduced spending and scaled back purchases of our programming, our retail customers have reacted with increased product returns and reduced future purchases of our programming, which has adversely impacted our revenues and results of operations during this fiscal year. Weak consumer demand for our product may continue in the future and may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. A further tightening of the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing. The recent recession and instability in the global economy has resulted in tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates. Persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our access to financing and the terms and cost of that financing. As a result, we may not be able to secure additional financing in a timely manner, or at all, to meet our future capital needs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to secure DVD distribution rights may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Given our current liquidity issues, we may be unable to continue to secure DVD and other distribution rights on terms acceptable to us, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquiring distribution rights to desirable high-profile content requires significant advance payment, which we may not be able to make. For more information regarding our continuing ability to obtain DVD distribution rights, see “Business — Competition” above. Major motion picture studios have normally not granted, nor are they expected to grant, exclusive DVD licenses to us for new releases and popular catalogue titles. Instead, the major motion picture studios will most likely continue to sell DVD titles directly to retailers. As our liquidity condition allows, we expect to continue to license exclusive DVD and other home entertainment format content, but we may not remain competitive against licensing entities with greater financial resources, and independent program suppliers may distribute their programming themselves rather than through us. In addition, our success will continue to depend upon our ability to identify and secure rights to exclusive content that appeals to consumers. We have a high concentration of sales to relatively few customers, the loss of which may adversely impact our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal 2010, Amazon.com, Inc. and AEC accounted for approximately 17% and 14% of our net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2009, Amazon.com, Inc. accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues. Additionally, our top five customers accounted for over 53% of our fiscal 2010 net revenues. We may be unable to maintain favorable relationships with our retailers and distributors. Further, our retailers and distributors may be adversely affected by economic conditions. For example, the parent of AEC underwent a bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. If we lose any of our top customers or if any of these customers reduces or cancels a significant order, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our high concentration of sales to relatively few customers may result in significant uncollectible accounts receivable exposure, which may adversely impact our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. At March 31, 2010, Amazon.com, Inc. and AEC accounted for 18% and 13%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. At March 31, 2009, Anderson Merchandisers, AEC and Amazon.com, Inc. accounted for approximately 12%, 11%, and 10%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. 14 Table of Contents Due to the concentration of sales to relatively few customers, we face credit exposure from our retail customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. If these customers fail to pay their accounts receivable, file for bankruptcy or significantly reduce their purchases of our programming, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We have a high concentration of sales from relatively few titles, which may impact future net revenues if we do not acquire additional titles. Our top five fiscal 2010 new release exclusive titles on DVD accounted for approximately 14% of our fiscal 2010 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2010 new release exclusive titles on DVD accounted for approximately 18% of our fiscal 2010 net revenues. Sales for these catalogue titles have decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire. If we are unable to acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity to replace the revenue provided by our existing titles, our future net revenues will be negatively impacted. Our acquisition of cast-driven finished feature film content may not be successful, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are primarily known as an aggregator of exclusive distribution rights for eclectic, non-feature film entertainment programming. In our effort to focus on cast-driven finished feature films, we face competition from other distribution entities that are well known for acquiring and distributing this genre of programming. We face competition from better-capitalized entities, including the major motion picture and independent studios, and may be unable to offer the same upfront money required to secure the rights for certain available programming. While we have key members of management and staff with feature film acquisition, sales and marketing talent and experience, we may not be ultimately successful in acquiring or selling feature film content competitively or to the extent of our current plans. With the maturation of the DVD market, our inability to successfully acquire or sell feature film content could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with our strategy of pursuing acquisitions, joint ventures and partnering arrangements. A key element of our current business strategy is acquiring accretive businesses and entering into joint ventures and other creative partnering arrangements, which pose unique risks. For example, regardless of whether we complete any such transaction, its negotiation, as well as the integration of any acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Further, any such transaction could also potentially result in the future impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to gauge and predict the commercial success of our programming could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Timing is also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g., an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Our success will depend in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time. Our inability to gauge and predict the commercial success of our programming could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current DVD and CD genre revenue concentrations may become unpopular with our retail customers and end-consumers, which may adversely impact our business. During fiscal 2010 and 2009, our DVD sales were heavily weighted toward comedy, music and television-related DVD programming and feature film programming. We may not be able to successfully continue producing or acquiring content in the same genres, or achieve the same strength within these genres. If we are unable to compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile DVD and CD content, our business may be adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents Inventory obsolescence may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We maintain a substantial investment in DVD and CD inventory. If we overestimate the demand for a particular title, we may warehouse significant quantities of that title. Retained inventory occupies valuable storage space and may become obsolete as our distribution term for the title expires. Although we may sell the inventory at a deeply discounted price toward the end of the distribution term to recoup our manufacturing, storage and other costs, there is no guarantee that a market will exist for a given title, even at the deeply discounted price. Alternatively, we may want to renew the exclusive distribution rights to an expiring title, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so, or do so on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, our royalty and distribution fee agreements sometimes contain terms, such as minimum royalties per unit and music publishing fees, which effectively prevent us from steeply discounting the price on some titles. Failure to sell obsolete inventory may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to recoup advances paid to secure exclusive distribution rights. Our most significant costs and cash expenditures relate to acquiring content for exclusive distribution. Most agreements to acquire content require upfront advances against royalties or net profits expected to be earned from future distribution. The advance amounts are derived from our estimate of net revenues that will be realized from our distribution of the title. Although these estimates are based on management’s knowledge of current events and actions management may undertake in the future, actual results will differ from those estimates. If sales do not meet our original estimates, we may (i) not recognize the expected gross margin or net profit, (ii) not recoup our advance or (iii) record accelerated amortization and/or fair value write-downs of film costs, including the advances paid. We recorded accelerated amortization and fair value write-downs of film costs in the amounts of $5.5 million and $6.7 million in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Any of these events may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with distributing our programming internationally may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We distribute our programming internationally. As a result, our business may be subject to various risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. Risks faced in distributing our programming internationally include: · cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; · changes in laws and policies affecting international trade (including taxes); · credit risk; · fluctuating foreign exchange rates and controls; · civil strife; · acts of war; · guerilla activities; · insurrection; · terrorism; · changing retailer and consumer tastes and preferences with regard to our programming; · differing degrees of protection of our intellectual property; · cultural barriers; and · potential instability of foreign economies and governments. Any of the foregoing risks may adversely impact our international sales, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inability to maintain relationships with our program suppliers and vendors may adversely impact our business. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of those DVDs for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. However, those titles in production which have been financed by us may not be timely delivered as agreed or be of expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery of titles, including rights clearances, could negatively impact the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. In addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted if: · we are unable to renew our existing agreements as they expire; · our current program suppliers do not continue to support the DVD format in accordance with our exclusive agreements; · our current content suppliers do not continue to license titles to us on terms favorable to us; or · we are unable to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive titles in a timely and efficient manner. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to keep pace with technological advances, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments, including Blu-ray and digital delivery. Because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. If we are unable to keep pace with accepted technological advances in delivering entertainment programming, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Failure by third parties to promote our programming may adversely impact our business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of the programming we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular music concert, feature film or related product. We may not control the manner in which a particular artist, film or related product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding DVD or CD releases. Although artists, record companies, studios and producers have a financial interest in the success of any concerts or films distributed by us, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. An increase in product returns may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Our allowances for sales returns may not be adequate to cover potential returns in the future, particularly in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. Our experience over two of the past three years has been one of increasing return rates, and we expect this trend to continue. A continuation of increasing return rates may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not possess satisfactory rights in our properties, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we require satisfactory chain of title information to our exclusively licensed content, as well as errors and omissions insurance and indemnification from our content providers, the risk exists that some programs may have a defective chain of title. The validity and ownership of rights to some titles can be uncertain and may be contested by third parties, which may result in litigation that could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete in the home entertainment industry depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property rights. We protect our property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in some jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions of our distribution, there are no copyright and/or trademark protections available. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or portions or applications of our intended productions. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the resulting diversion of resources could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. From time to time, we may also receive claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Regardless of the validity or the success of the claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our business could be harmed. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Moreover, we believe that our success greatly depends on the contributions of our executive management, including Chief Executive Officer Theodore S. Green, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer John P. Avagliano, Vice Chairman John W. Hyde, Chief Acquisitions Officer Bill Bromiley, Executive Vice President Raymond Gagnon and Executive Vice President, Operations Rick Eiberg. Although we have employment agreements with executive management, any of our employees may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the acquisition of content and harm the market’s perception of us. Competition for the caliber of talent required to acquire and distribute content continues to increase. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. The occurrence of uninsured events may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We maintain insurance to protect us against various risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in types and amounts that we believe to be reasonable. However, we may elect to limit coverage or not to carry insurance for some risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance in light of the steep increase in premiums in Southern California after the Northridge earthquake in January 1994. The occurrence of uninsured events or events for which we are not adequately insured may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face direct and indirect foreign currency exchange risk. We distribute some of our licensed DVD programming (for which we hold international distribution rights) internationally through sub-licensees such as Universal Music Group International and Digital Site, and the sales transactions underlying these relationships are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Although we receive payments in U.S. Dollars from our sublicensors, fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could affect the amount of these payments. For example, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to either the Euro or the Yen, our sublicensors’ reported royalties to us on a title-by-title basis and in the aggregate would decline (assuming consistent unit sales) and thus reduce our revenues. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, including ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the hedging activities and potential accounting implications. We depend on third-party shipping and fulfillment companies for the delivery of our products. If these companies experience operational difficulties or disruptions, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on Arvato Digital Services, our disc replication and fulfillment partner, to determine the best delivery method for our products. Arvato relies entirely on arrangements with third-party shipping companies, principally UPS and Federal Express, for small package deliveries and less-than-truckload service carriers for larger deliveries, for the delivery of our products. The termination of arrangements between Arvato and one or more of these third-party shipping companies, or the failure or inability of one or more of these third-party shipping companies to deliver products on a timely or cost-efficient basis from Arvato to our customers, could disrupt our business, reduce net sales and harm our reputation. Furthermore, an increase in the amount charged by these shipping companies could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings. Legislative actions, higher directors’ and officers’ insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial condition and results of operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as ongoing changes to rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retain additional legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused, and could continue to cause, our general and administrative costs to increase. In addition, insurers have increased and could continue to increase premiums for our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. As a result, it may be more expensive for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. Changes in or new accounting standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry The standard DVD format has matured. During calendar 2009, the DVD marketplace experienced the third straight year-over-year decline for the category since the format debuted in 1997. Home Media Magazine and Strategic Analytics reported in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2010 a noticeable decline in packaged media units (including DVD and Blu-ray) actually sold globally to consumers in 2009. We generated approximately 87% and 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, from the sale of standard DVDs. The continued maturation of the standard DVD format may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information regarding the trend of the DVD format maturation, see “Business — Industry Trends” above. Decreasing retail prices for DVDs may negatively impact our revenues and gross profit margins. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than us. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. Decreasing retail shelf space for our industry may limit sales of our programming, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent content suppliers for limited retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. Our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a large supply and diversity of entertainment content from other suppliers. New DVD releases generally exceed several hundred titles a week. We believe this competition can be especially challenging for independent labels like us, because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales rates in the millions of units, and typically require much more shelf space to support. Shelf space limitations at our “brick and mortar” retail customers are exacerbated by the arrival of a sole high-definition DVD format - Blu-ray. The combination of standard discs, premium discs and special-edition boxed sets across up to two formats means that a release can come in as many six different configurations. With the possible exception of our most popular new release titles and top-selling catalogue titles, it can be a challenge to obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers who comprise our core “brick and mortar” customers. The continued retailer trend toward greater visibility for titles at the expense of quantity (i.e., “face out” rather than “spine out” DVD placement) has the effect of reducing the total number of titles actually carried by a retailer. For more information regarding decreasing retail shelf space due to DVD releases of major studios, see “Business — Competition” above. For retailers, reconciling the expanding DVD catalog with limited shelf space is becoming increasingly urgent. Meanwhile, rights holders like Image and other non-studio content providers have a growing concern that many titles are simply not strong enough to secure shelf space. If we are unable to secure sufficient shelf space for our programming, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Illegal piracy may reduce our revenues and adversely impact our results of operation. The music industry is facing a major challenge in the form of illegal piracy resulting from Internet downloading and CD recorders. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. As DVD recorders, DVRs and high-speed Internet connections become more popular, and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core DVD business. Motion picture piracy is already extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier because of technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products may reduce the revenue we receive from our products, which may cause an adverse material impact on our business. In order to contain this problem, we require our retail distribution partners to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures such as geo-filtering, which could result in significant expenses and loss of revenue. Even with such security and anti-piracy measures, we may be unable to prevent illegal piracy. 19 Table of Contents If DVD cannot compete successfully with other formats of home entertainment, our revenues may be adversely impacted. The DVD format competes with other formats of in-home entertainment, including network, syndicated, cable and pay-per-view television, home satellite systems and video gaming systems. The DVD format also competes with new and emerging technologies in the entertainment industry, including Blu-ray, entertainment programming on the Internet, video-on-demand, high-definition television, and optical discs with greater storage capacity. These alternate home entertainment formats and emerging content delivery technologies may adversely impact the overall market for our DVD sales, especially if we are unable to continue to adapt and exploit the development and advancement of emerging technology. The motion picture industry is rapidly evolving, and recent trends have shown that audience response to both traditional and emerging distribution channels is volatile and difficult to predict. The entertainment industry in general and the motion picture industry in particular continue to undergo significant changes, due both to shifting consumer tastes and to technological developments. New technologies, such as video-on-demand and Internet distribution of films, have provided motion picture companies with new channels through which to distribute their films. Accurately forecasting both the changing expectations of movie audiences and market demand within these new channels has proven challenging. We cannot accurately predict the overall effect shifting audience tastes, technological change or the availability of alternative forms of entertainment may have on the distributor. In addition to uncertainty regarding the DVD market, there is uncertainty as to whether other developing distribution channels and formats, including video-on-demand, Internet distribution of films and high-definition, will attain expected levels of public acceptance or, if such channels or formats are accepted by the public, whether we will be successful in exploiting the business opportunities they provide. Moreover, to the extent that these emerging distribution channels and formats gain popular acceptance, the demand for delivery through DVDs may decrease. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our recent issuance of preferred stock resulted in substantial dilution to our stockholders, and the rights of the holders of preferred stock could render future financings and merger and acquisition transactions more difficult. On January 8, 2010, we raised gross proceeds of $22.0 million through the sale and issuance to affiliates of JH Partners, LLC (or JH Partners) of 22,000 shares of newly designated Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock and 196,702 shares of newly designated Series C Junior Participating Preferred Stock. The initial Series C Preferred Stock sold to these investors would convert into 196,702,000 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment upon any stock dividends, stock splits or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock). While this private placement provided us with additional working capital required to repay outstanding indebtedness and fund continuing operations, the transaction was extremely dilutive to our existing stockholders, and the agreements with the purchasers contain terms and covenants that could result in additional dilution to our stockholders due to a remaining purchase right, as of the time of this filing, to acquire up to 3,700 additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock and 33,081.7 additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock (convertible into an additional 33,081,700 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events), all of which could render future financings and merger and acquisition transactions more difficult. In the event of any merger or acquisition of Image, each share of Series B Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive an amount in cash equal to the sum of (i) a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (subject to adjustment upon any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock) and (ii) the amount per share equal to accrued but unpaid dividends, which accrue on a cumulative compounding basis at a rate of 12% per annum on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. If we enter into an acquisition or merger transaction in which shares of our common stock are exchanged for or converted or changed into other stock or securities, cash or any other property, then each share of Series C Preferred Stock will be similarly exchanged, converted or changed into an amount per share equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property into which each share of our common stock is converted, changed or exchanged (subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events). 20 Table of Contents Because of its significant stock ownership, our largest stockholders can exert significant influence over our future direction. On January 8, 2010, affiliates of JH Partners purchased 22,000 shares of newly designated Series B Preferred Stock and 196,702 shares of newly designated Series C Preferred Stock. After subsequent transactions involving our capital stock, the Series C Preferred Stock currently held by JH Partners affiliates is convertible, at the option of the holders, into 176,137,700 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events), representing approximately 77.03% of our outstanding voting securities as of June 1, 2010. As of the time of this filing, the investors have a remaining purchase right acquire up to 3,700 additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock and 33,081.7 additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock (convertible into an additional 33,081,700 shares of common stock (subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events)) that could further increase their ownership. Prior to conversion, the Series C Preferred Stock votes together as one class with the holders of our common stock (except as provided by law or our certificate of incorporation) and each share of Series C Preferred Stock entitles the holder to 1,000 votes (subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events) on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. In connection with the sale of the shares, the affiliates of JH Partners appointed the three current members of our board of directors, two of whom work for JH Partners. Therefore, JH Partners is able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of JH Partners may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. As a result of our delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market, we are not currently subject to its corporate governance requirements and you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of listed companies. Effective as of February 3, 2010, trading in our common stock was suspended from trading on The Nasdaq Global Market due to, among things, failure to satisfy certain corporate governance requirements for continued listing. The Nasdaq Stock Market imposes certain corporate governance requirements on listed companies. For example, listed companies must, among other things, have a majority of independent board members and fully independent audit, nominating and compensation committees. As a result of our sale of preferred stock to certain affiliates of JH Partners in January 2010, our board was replaced in its entirety with individuals that were nominated by the affiliates of JH Partners. Our current board of directors consists of three members — Theodore S. Green, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Patrick M. Collins and Michael J. John, each of whom is employed by JH Partners. None of the new directors are “independent” as that term is defined for board and audit committee members by the listing rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market and Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The new board of directors has not formed a separate audit committee and, therefore, the entire board of directors is acting as the audit committee until we can find and appoint independent directors to form a separate audit committee comprised solely of independent directors. While we are in the process of finding independent directors to serve on the board and to comprise a separate audit committee, we may not find a sufficient number of qualified individuals willing to serve. In addition, the new board has not formed separate compensation or nominating committees. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to, and in full compliance with, the corporate governance requirements of a securities exchange. Our stock price may be subject to substantial volatility, and you may lose all or a substantial part of your investment. Our common stock currently trades in the over-the-counter market on the OTCQB marketplace. There is a limited public float, and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. From June 1, 2009 through June 1, 2010, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $0.17 and $1.16 per share on volume ranging from none to over 2.3 million shares per day. As a result, the market price for our common stock may not necessarily be a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, and market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. You may find it difficult to dispose of your shares. There is currently a limited trading market for our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace. The ability to trade our common stock on the OTCQB marketplace depends on the presence and investment decisions of willing buyers and sellers. Therefore, the market of investors who are willing to purchase our common stock is limited, the volume of our common stock traded on a daily basis is low, and the liquidity of our common stock is constrained. Prices for securities traded solely on the OTCQB marketplace may be difficult to obtain. This very limited liquidity, marketability, the reduced public access to price quotations and lack of a regular trading market may depress the market price of our common stock. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher-priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. The delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market could result in loss of investors, increased obligations under state securities laws, decreased coverage by securities analysts and a higher cost of capital. Effective as of February 3, 2010, trading in our common stock was suspended from trading on The Nasdaq Global Market. The quotations for our common stock now appear on the OTCQB marketplace of Pink OTC Markets Inc. Delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market subjects us to numerous consequences that may adversely affect our business, including the loss of investors. Further, delisting may result in decreased coverage by securities analysts. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, may be impaired. Furthermore, we may experience decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market-making activity, and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers may be willing to execute trades with respect to our common stock. The delisting may decrease the attractiveness of our common stock and cause the trading volume of our common stock to decline significantly, which could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. We intend to seek to be relisted on a securities exchange at some point in the future; however, we may not be able to satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange, an exchange may not approve our listing and the timing of any relisting is uncertain. Any future sales of equity may significantly impact the market price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including significant equity compensation grants we agreed to award our executive management subsequent to March 31, 2010, shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and other convertible securities, and shares issuable upon conversion of outstanding shares of our Series C Preferred Stock, could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our stock price may be negatively impacted. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if, as of our fiscal year ending March 31, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse impact on our stock price. 22 Table of Contents Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, as well as our stockholder rights plan, could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: · no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; · a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; · the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill any vacancies, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; · the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; · a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent or electronic transmission, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; · the requirement that, except as required by law and subject to any rights of holders of preferred stock, a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president and the secretary, in each case pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and · advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 