RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this report, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Risks Relating to Our Business. We Have a High Concentration of Sales From Relatively Few Titles. Our top five fiscal 2005 new release exclusive titles (DVD Larry the Cable Guy: Git R Done, DVD Ron White: They Call Me Tater Salad, CD The Source Presents Hip Hop Hits 9, DVD Bill Engvall: Here’s Your Sign, and DVD Jeff Foxworthy: You Might Be a Redneck If / Check Your Neck) accounted for approximately 21% of our fiscal 2005 net revenues. Our top ten fiscal 2005 new release exclusive titles accounted for approximately 29% of our fiscal 2005 net revenues. Although catalogue sales of these titles continue to be relatively strong, sales for these titles nevertheless have decreased over time and will probably continue to do so until our rights expire, such as with our former perennial best-seller Eagles: Hell Freezes Over (worldwide net revenues from the sale of this Eagles title during fiscal 2005 were $2,982,000), for which our sell-off rights expire on June 30, 2005. Net revenues from new release DVD titles, where a new release title is defined as released during fiscal 2005, accounted for approximately 65% of fiscal 2005 net DVD revenues and net revenues from catalogue DVD titles, where catalogue is defined as a title first released in a previous fiscal year, accounted for approximately 35% of fiscal 2005 net DVD revenues. Revenues from new release and catalogue DVD titles accounted for approximately 58% and 42% of fiscal 2004 net DVD revenues, respectively. If we cannot acquire titles of equal or greater strength and popularity, our future net revenues would be negatively impacted. We Have a High Concentration of Sales to Relatively Few Customers. Anderson Merchandisers (who supplies Wal-Mart), Best Buy and AEC One Stop Group together accounted for approximately 39% of our net revenues for the year ended March 31, 2005. Additionally, our top five retail customers accounted for over 50% of our fiscal 2005 net revenues. Any combination of these customers filing for bankruptcy or significantly reducing their purchases of our programming would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our top 25 retail customers accounted for approximately 86% of our fiscal 2005 net revenues. We are not an exclusive supplier to any of our retail customers, and there is no guarantee that we will continue recognizing significant revenue from sales to any particular customer. If we are unable to maintain the sale of our titles at their current levels to any these five customers, and are unable to find other customers to replace these sales, there would be a negative impact on our revenues and future profitability. We Have Extended More Favorable Payment Terms to Our Customers, Which Increases Our Credit Risk. We created a fourth quarter catalogue sales program which included the offering of net 120, 150 and 180 day payment terms, rather than our customary net 60 to 75 days, on specific catalogue orders from retail customers who chose to participate in the program. In addition, we offered discounts of three to five percent, a standard practice for us on particularly large catalogue sales orders, on these extended dating purchases. Our extended payment terms allowed some of our customers — most notably AEC One Stop, Critic’s Choice, Ingram, Musicland and Trans World Entertainment — to expand the size and breadth of what they would have purchased otherwise. Nevertheless, the extended payment terms increase the risk of larger outstanding accounts receivable, which may become uncollectible or less collectible in the event any of these customers file for bankruptcy. The catalogue sales program also increases the risk that participating customers will order fewer catalogue titles from us in upcoming quarters. The Risks Inherent in Our Strategic Alliances Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Business. We have co-production deals in place with Dark Horse Entertainment and ContentFilm, and we plan to continue our strategy of developing key alliances with other third party content producers. We will rely on our co-producers to develop and produce films. Particularly when produced by independent filmmakers, each film is a separate business venture with its own management, employees, equipment and budgetary requirements. There are substantial risks associated with film production, including contract problems with, or disability of, directors, actors and other key artistic and technical personnel, weather and other delays, damage to sets, equipment or film, and the inability of production personnel to comply with budgetary or scheduling requirements. Such problems could materially increase the cost of production, increase the amount of time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues, or cause the project to be abandoned at any stage if further expenditures do not appear commercially feasible. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our strategic alliances, and any failure of our present and future 12 alliances to produce commercially viable content at an acceptable cost could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to find further desirable strategic alliances as we continue pursuing new co-production deals and similar relationships. If Our Current DVD and CD Genre Concentrations Become Unpopular With Our Retail Customers and End Consumers, Our Business May Be Adversely Affected. During fiscal 2004, our DVD title genre concentration was heavily weighted toward music-related DVD programming. We were successful in our fiscal 2005 efforts to diversify our exclusive content into multiple DVD genres and grow our revenues in the CD format. Approximately 23%, 18% and 13% of our domestic net revenues generated in fiscal 2005 were derived from sales of exclusively produced/acquired comedy, television- and music-related DVD entertainment content, respectively, with the remaining 46% spread over multiple special interest genres. This compares to an approximately 24% concentration in music-related DVD content in fiscal 2004 with the remainder spread among special interest genres. During fiscal 2005 we were able to grow our audio business to over 10% of our total net revenues, compared to approximately 7% in fiscal 2004, further diversifying the source of our revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully to continually produce and/or acquire content in the same genres, however, or that we will achieve the same strength within the genres with which we were successful in fiscal 2005. If we cannot compete successfully in the home entertainment market for higher-profile DVD and CD content, our business may be adversely affected. We May Need Additional Funding to Continue Acquiring Desirable Programming. Availability of working capital is a substantial factor in our ability to produce and/or acquire new content. Therefore, maximizing available working capital is critical to our business operations. We may need to raise additional funds to acquire the rights to content or to create content we find desirable. Should additional funds be raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders may be reduced. If adequate funds are not available or unavailable on acceptable terms, we may find we are unable to fund expansion, continue offering products and services, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, and/or respond to competitive pressures in the industry. Inventory Obsolescence Poses a Risk to Us. We maintain a substantial investment in DVD and CD inventory, and if we overestimate the demand for a particular title, we may retain significant quantities of that title in our warehouse. Retained inventory occupies valuable storage space and may become obsolete as our distribution term for the title expires. Although we may sell such inventory at a steeply discounted price toward the end of the distribution term in order to recoup our manufacturing, storage and other costs, there is no guarantee that a market will exist for a given title, even at the steeply discounted price. Additionally, our license and/or distribution agreements sometimes contain terms, such as minimum royalties per unit and music publishing fees, which effectively prevent us from steeply discounting the price on some titles. We Face Risks Associated with Deluxe’s Performance Under Our Manufacturing Services Agreement. We source substantially all of our DVD replication from Deluxe. Any failure of Deluxe to manufacture and deliver our product in a timely manner and with the same consistent quantity and quality that we and our customers have come to expect may adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, although we believe we have the ability to shift our product manufacturing from Deluxe to another facility should the need arise; we may be adversely affected by the period of time that we would need to direct manufacturing duties to another company. We Face Risks in Distributing Our Programming Internationally. We distribute our programming internationally and derive a decreasing percentage of our revenues from sales activity outside of North America. As a result, our business may be subject to various risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. Risks faced in distributing our programming internationally include: cancellation or renegotiation of contracts, changes in laws and policies affecting international trade (including taxes), credit risk, fluctuating foreign exchange rates and controls, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection, terrorism, changing retailer and consumer tastes and preferences with regard to our programming, differing degrees of protection of our intellectual property, cultural barriers, and potential instability of foreign economies and governments. The Majority of International Revenues Are Generated By Three Sublicensees. Revenues generated from international distribution are primarily from the manufacturing, marketing and distribution efforts of Sony BMG, Warner Music Group and, in the future, Digital Site. Should any of Sony BMG, Warner or Digital Site default on their respective sublicense agreements with us or fail to successfully perform, an important part of our business strategy, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be negatively impacted. 13 We Have Direct and Indirect Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Although our Sony BMG and Digital Site sublicense agreements are U.S. Dollar denominated, with these parties reporting to us and paying us in U.S. Dollars, the underlying Sony BMG sales transactions are in Euros and the underlying Digital Site sales transactions are in Yen. On June 1, 2005, the Euro was equivalent to approximately U.S. $1.23 and the Yen was equivalent to approximately U.S. $0.009214. Should the U.S. Dollar strengthen compared to either the Euro or the Yen, our sublicensors’ reported royalties to us on a title-by-title basis and in the aggregate would decline (assuming consistent unit sales) and thus reduce our revenues recognized. We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses. While we were profitable for fiscal 2005, we sustained net losses for the three preceding fiscal years ending March 31, 2004. Our accumulated deficit at March 31, 2005, was $9.5 million. While we have made changes to our business that we hope will successfully lead to consistent profitability, due to the inherent unpredictability of high-profile content acquisition and competition for limited retail shelf space, we may incur losses again in the future. If We Cannot Maintain Relationships with Our Program Suppliers and Vendors, Our Business May Be Adversely Affected. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from the distribution of those DVDs for which we already have exclusive agreements with program suppliers. We can give no assurances, however, that titles in production which have been financed by us will be timely delivered as agreed or of the expected quality. Delays or inadequacies in delivery, including rights clearances, could negatively impact the performance of any given quarter or fiscal year. We can give no assurance that such content will ultimately be purchased in internally forecasted quantities by our retail customers or ultimately desired by the end-consumer. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to renew these exclusive rights as existing agreements with program suppliers expire. We also cannot assure you that our current program suppliers will continue to support the DVD format in accordance with our exclusive agreements, that our current content suppliers will continue to license titles to us on the current terms or on terms favorable to us, or that we will be able to establish new beneficial supplier relationships to ensure acquisition of exclusive titles in a timely and efficient manner. The Full Exploitation of Our Rights Requires Us to Conduct Business in Areas Where Our Expertise Is Limited. In order to fully exploit some of the rights we have acquired, we are required to conduct business in sectors (e.g. Internet, rental, broadcast, video on demand, in-flight, satellite) where we are not as experienced as we are in the DVD and home video sectors. Accordingly, when exploiting such sectors in which we are less experienced, we may realize a greater proportion of costs, or we may not realize as much of a proportion of revenue, as we would in the DVD and home video sectors. If We Do Not Effectively Implement Our Sales and Marketing Efforts, Our Profitability May Suffer. We have increased our internal sales staff in order to enhance our sales efforts. We cannot assure you that our sales team can successfully compete against the more extensive and well-funded sales operations of our current and future competitors, however. If Our Key Personnel Leave Us, Our Business May Be Adversely Affected. Our success greatly depends on the performance of our executive management, including the President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as our five senior vice presidents responsible for the critical areas of content acquisition, legal, marketing & product development, operations, and sales. The loss of the services of key persons of our executive and senior management could have an adverse material effect on our operating results and financial condition. If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Warehouse and Distribution Facility, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Domestic wholesale distribution of our exclusive programming is fulfilled from a single warehouse and distribution facility in Las Vegas, Nevada. If we are unable to operate this facility for any reason, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict sales increases or declines, we may not manage our facility in an optimal way, which may result in excess inventory, warehousing and distribution problems. Our failure to handle inventory properly could result in unexpected costs, delays and harm to our business and reputation. Occurrence of Events for Which We Are Not Insured May Adversely Affect Our Business. We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against various risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in types and 14 amounts that we believe to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, we may elect to limit coverage or not to carry insurance for some risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance in light of the steep increase in premiums in Southern California after the Northridge earthquake on January 17, 1994. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flows and overall profitability. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Our Success Depends on the Unpredictable Commercial Success of Our Programming. Operating in the entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each music performance, feature film or other programming title is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. The commercial success of a title also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs or titles released into the marketplace, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Our success will depend in part on the popularity of our content which, in turn, depends on our ability to gauge and predict expected popularity. Even if a film achieves success during its theatrical release, the popularity of a particular program and its ratings may diminish over time, which may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Timing and timeliness are also sometimes relevant to a program’s success, especially when the program concerns a recent event or historically relevant material (e.g. an anniversary of a historical event which focuses media attention on the event and accordingly spurs interest in related content). Decreasing Retail Shelf Space May Limit Sales of Our Programming. We face increasing competition from major motion picture studios, music labels and other independent distribution companies for limited retail shelf space and retailer open to buy dollars. Our exclusive content competes for a finite amount of shelf space against a growing supply of entertainment content. Because the new DVD releases of major studios often have extremely high visibility and sales velocity in the millions of units, which typically require more shelf space to support, we may not be able to afford or obtain the product placement necessary to maximize sales, particularly among the limited number of major retailers that are our core customers, which could result in decreased revenues and gross margins. See “Competition” above. If We Do Not Effectively Implement a Transition to Vendor Managed Inventory, Our Business May Be Adversely Affected. Larger retailers are starting to move toward a Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) system whereby independent suppliers like us would be responsible for monitoring, stocking and fulfilling directly to individual retail stores and outlets. We currently have one major customer who is requiring VMI in the near future, and other customers are likely to follow suit. The first target date for VMI compliance for music DVD and CD is August 2005, and target dates for other categories of DVD are expected to be later in 2005 or 2006. While we currently expect to have a VMI system in place to test in late 2005 or early 2006, with full implementation projected a few months thereafter, we may not be able to do so in a timely and effective manner. Also, the corresponding expense to upgrade our existing Oracle system, add a VMI Oracle module, plus associated training and consulting costs, are presently unknown. Failure to implement VMI in a timely manner could result in decreased opportunities for shelf space or decreased margins, and may require us to sell to VMI customers indirectly through third-parties who have already implemented VMI. While we should be able to add other customers without significant additional costs or time once we implement VMI, there can be no assurance this will be the case, and VMI implementation may require additional freight charges as inventory is sent directly to retail stores and outlets in smaller packages with greater frequency. We May Not Be Able to Keep Pace with Technological Advances. The entertainment industry in general, and the music and motion picture industries in particular, are continuing to undergo significant changes, primarily due to technological developments. As an independent supplier, we believe we have a superior ability to adapt to changing formats and distribution methods, as we did when shifting our focus from laserdiscs to DVDs, and that our customer base will continue to purchase programming from us through new distribution methods. However, because of the rapid growth of technology, shifting consumer tastes and the popularity and availability of other forms of entertainment, it is impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on potential revenue from, and profitability of, distributing entertainment programming. It is also impossible to predict the overall effect these factors could have on our ability to compete effectively in a changing market. 15 Product Returns Pose a Significant Risk to Us. As with the major studios and other independent companies in this industry, we experience a relatively high level of product returns as a percentage of our revenues. Although our past experience indicates that our allowances for sales returns are adequate to cover potential returns, there can be no assurance that these reserves will be adequate in the future, in the case of consolidation within the home video retail marketplace which, when it occurs, tends to result in inventory consolidation and increased returns. Illegal Piracy May Reduce Our Revenues. The music industry is facing a major challenge in the form of illegal piracy resulting from Internet downloading and/or CD recorders. This piracy has negatively affected industry revenues and profits. Although we currently derive only 10.2% of our revenues from audio CDs, we expect that our proportional revenues in this sector will increase. Additionally, DVD recorders are gradually gaining greater market penetration. According to In-Stat, the DVD recorder market, not including units connected to PCs, doubled in size in 2004 and is expected to grow 87% in 2005. They expect worldwide DVD recorders to grow from 9.4 million in 2004 to 67.7 million in 2009. As DVD recorders and high-speed Internet connections become more popular, and the storage capacity of personal computers increases, we may face greater piracy concerns with respect to our core DVD business. Others’ Failure to Promote Our Programming May Adversely Affect Our Business. Decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of programming which we license and distribute are important in determining the success of a particular music concert, feature film or related product. We may not control the manner in which a particular artist, film or related product is marketed and promoted, and we may not be able to fully control our corresponding DVD or CD release. Although artists, record companies, studios and producers have a financial interest in the success of any such concerts or films distributed by us, any marketing or promotional decision or restriction by such persons may negatively affect the success of our titles. Additionally, the availability of retailer programs relating to product placement, co-op advertising and market development funds, and our ability and willingness to pay for such programs, are also important with respect to promoting our exclusive titles. If DVD Cannot Compete Successfully with Other Formats of Home Entertainment, Our Revenues May Be Negatively Impacted. The DVD format competes with other formats of in-home entertainment, such as network, syndicated, cable and pay-per-view television and home satellite systems. The DVD format also competes with new and emerging technologies in the entertainment industry, such as entertainment programming on the Internet, video on demand, high-definition television, digital videotape and optical discs with greater storage capacity. While we are actively seeking to exploit these alternate home entertainment formats and emerging content delivery technologies, they nevertheless could negatively impact the overall market for our DVD sales, especially if we are unable to continue to adapt and exploit the development and advancement of such technology. DVD Sales May Not Sustain the Same Level of Growth. We believe that consumer interest in the DVD format is due partly to interest in building the consumer’s personal DVD library of desired entertainment programming. Although our exclusive titles have generally shown stable sales over extended periods, as consumers build their DVD libraries, or with the introduction of new home entertainment formats, DVD sales may decline and adversely affect our operations. See “Industry Trends” above. Decreasing Retail Prices for DVDs May Negatively Impact Our Revenues. The home entertainment programming market in which we compete is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our competitors, including major studios, are increasingly offering programming, particularly DVD programming, at lower prices. They may be able to produce or secure content on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we are able to do. While we strive to improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass along these savings to our customers in the form of lower prices, the industry trend of lowering prices may, over time, lead to higher levels of competition and, therefore, lost sales, decreased profit margins or decreased overall revenues. Conflicting High-Definition DVD Formats May Cause Inefficiencies. Currently, two major platforms are competing to become the dominant high-definition player, and recent talks to unify the platforms have been unsuccessful. The HD-DVD platform is purported to launch in late 2005, while the Blu-Ray Disc® platform is purported to launch in early-mid 2006. For many of our titles, we hold rights to both platforms, but simultaneously supporting both platforms will cause increased production costs and decreased efficiencies with respect to inventory management and sales. Moreover, competing platforms may cause a delay in high-definition player market penetration, and mainstream acceptance of high-definition DVD in general, as consumers may decide to wait and see which platform prevails before purchasing a player. 16 Our Film Production Efforts May Not be Financially Successful. Our co-produced films are more expensive to create than our DVD co-productions, and the time between our expenditure of funds and receipt of revenues is longer. While much of our programming is sold to retailers on a sell-through basis, the financial success of our filmed programming will depend on our ability to generate higher sales to retailers who primarily rent programming such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery, Hollywood Entertainment (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Movie Gallery) and Netflix, as well as to mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Costco and Target. Our filmed programming may not ultimately be as desirable to our target customers as we would hope, which would lead to lower than expected sales, decreased profit margins or losses. If We Cannot Continue to Secure DVD License and Distribution Rights, Our Business May Be Materially Adversely Affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to secure DVD and other license and distribution rights on terms acceptable to us. See “Competition” above. Major motion picture studios have normally not granted, nor are they expected to grant, exclusive DVD licenses to us for new releases and popular catalogue titles. Instead, the major motion picture studios will most likely continue to sell DVD titles directly to retailers. We expect to continue to license exclusive DVD and other home entertainment format content, but we cannot assure you that we can remain competitive against licensing entities with greater financial resources or that independent program suppliers will not distribute their programming themselves. In addition, our success will continue to be dependent upon our ability to identify and secure rights to exclusive content that appeal to consumers. We May Not Possess Satisfactory Rights in Our Properties. Although we require satisfactory chain of title information to our exclusively licensed content, the risk exists that some programs may have a defective chain of title. The validity and ownership of rights to some titles can be uncertain and may be contested by third parties. Our Results of Operations Fluctuate Based on Seasonality and Variability. We have generally experienced higher sales of DVDs and CDs in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31 due to increased consumer spending associated with the year-end holidays. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results of any future periods. In addition to seasonality issues, other factors have contributed to variability in our DVD and CD net revenues on a quarterly basis. These factors include: • the popularity of exclusive titles in release during the quarter; • late delivery or non-delivery of DVD or CD content or rights clearances by our content providers • our marketing and promotional activities; • our rights and distribution activities; • the availability of retailer shelf-space • the level of retailer open to buy dollars; • the extension, termination or non-renewal of existing license and distribution rights; and • general economic changes affecting the buying habits of our customers, particularly those changes affecting consumer demand for home entertainment-hardware, packaged media and digital content Protecting and Defending against Intellectual Property Claims May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our ability to compete in the home entertainment industry depends, in part, upon successful protection of our proprietary and intellectual property. We protect our property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in some jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions of our distribution, there are no copyright and/or trademark protections available. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or portions or applications of our intended productions. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the resulting diversion of resources could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. From time to time, we may also receive claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Regardless of the validity or the success of the claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against such claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Risks Relating to Our Stock. Our Stock Price May Be Subject to Substantial Volatility, and You May Lose All or a Substantial Part of Your Investment. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market. There is a limited public float (even after our recent private placement), and trading volume historically has been limited and sporadic. Over the last year, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $2.72 and $6.69 per share on volume ranging from 700 to over 2.2 million shares per day. As a result, the current price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The price at which our common stock will trade may be highly volatile and may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, without limitation, the number of shares available for sale in the market, quarterly variations in our operating results, and actual or anticipated announcements of new releases by us or competitors, the gain or loss of significant customers, changes in the estimates of our operating performance, market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. The Resale of Our Private Placement Shares May Significantly Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock. In December 2004, we sold 2,904,763 shares of our common stock in a private placement. The effective registration and resale of shares by the purchasers in the placement may significantly affect the market price of our stock. We have 21,251,916 shares of common stock outstanding as of June 2, 2005. The shares sold in the offering represent approximately 13.7% of our currently outstanding shares. Assuming all of the warrants we issued in connection with the placement were exercised for cash of $5,145,000, we would have 22,036,200 outstanding shares of common stock, and the 3,689,047 shares in the offering would represent 16.7% of our outstanding shares. Because the shares were registered on behalf of the Selling Shareholders, we have no control over which of them will actually resell all or any portion of their shares, or at what price. We May Incur Increased Costs as a Result of Laws and Regulations Relating to Corporate Governance Matters. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by NASDAQ, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. If our public float exceeds $75 million at the end of our second fiscal quarter on September 30, 2005, we will become an accelerated filer and be subject to additional regulatory requirements, including Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley which would the require us to include in our annual report for the period ending March 31, 2006 a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting and an accompanying auditor’s report. The additional costs and efforts to do so could be substantial. If we remain a non-accelerated filer, we will not have to comply until March 31, 2007. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations. Any Future Sales of Equity May Significantly Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. ITEM 