Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s substantial indebtedness could impair its financial condition and its ability to fulfill its debt obligations. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had total long-term debt of $553 million. This indebtedness can have significant consequences for the Company’s creditors and investors. For example this indebtedness could: · make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default on its indebtedness; · impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; · diminish the Company’s ability to withstand a downturn in its business, the industry in which it operates, or the economy generally; · limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business and the industry in which it operates; and · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to certain competitors that may have proportionately less debt. If the Company is unable to meet its debt service obligations or if it otherwise breaches a covenant, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital, or sell assets. The Company may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, the Company is and will remain subject to restrictions contained in its debt agreements. These include restrictions on the incurrence of debt, repurchase of shares and payment of dividends. Any default under the terms contained in the instruments governing the Company’s indebtedness could permit its creditors to accelerate the payment of the Company’s indebtedness. If the Company’s indebtedness is accelerated, the Company cannot be certain that it will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that it will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to the Company or at all. For a description of the Company’s indebtedness, see Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness. This cash may not be readily available to the Company. The Company’s ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon the Company’s future operating performance. The Company’s future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The Company cannot be certain that it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay its current indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The Company is subject to risks of decreased advertising revenues and potentially adverse effects of emerging technologies. The Company’s revenue is primarily driven by advertiser spending, which is generally lower in the first and third fiscal quarters as consumer activity slows during those periods. Additionally, broadcast advertising revenue tends to be higher in even-numbered years, when both political and Olympics advertising occurs. The level of advertising revenue across its television stations is also dependent on a variety of factors including: · economic conditions and demographics of the Company’s markets which are concentrated in the Southeast; · the popularity of programming offered by the Company’s stations; · variability in pricing for local and national advertising; · the volume of political advertising which may be constrained by campaign finance laws; · competition from other television broadcasters, websites and other media outlets; and · the financial health of large advertisers, particularly those in the automotive industry. 6 Television broadcasting is a mature industry. As a result, the Company’s revenues are being challenged by new, often-times web-based, competitors who have differing business models. New and emerging consumer devices, such as web-connected tablet computers and “smart phones,” provide alternate platforms for the providers of video programming to compete with television broadcast service for viewers and for advertising revenue. In addition, technologies that allow viewers to digitally record, store, skip and play back television programming may decrease viewership of commercials and, as a result, lower the Company’s advertising revenues. The Company’s future success depends upon its ability to adjust its operations to this changing business environment. For example, the Company is attempting to capitalize on a new standard that allows broadcast stations to broadcast video to mobile devices. If the Company is unable to adapt successfully, the Company’s existing revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company may be unable to sufficiently reduce operating costs to offset potential revenue declines. The Company previously has taken measures to manage its operating costs by reducing headcount, freezing or limiting certain employee benefits, and implementing other cost-control measures across the Company. In addition, during and following the disposition of its newspapers in 2012, the Company took aggressive action to reduce its corporate overhead costs. While these expense reductions have not significantly impacted the Company’s ability to deliver news to its local markets or serve its advertisers, future expense reductions may diminish the quality of the Company’s products and limit its ability to generate revenue. If further reductions in employee compensation and benefits are necessary, the Company may not be able to attract and retain key employees. Furthermore, significant portions of the Company’s expenses are fixed in nature and may not be easily reduced if revenue declines occur which may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. As a television broadcaster, the Company is highly regulated and continuation of its operations requires that it retain or renew a variety of government approvals. The FCC extensively regulates the ownership, operation and sale of broadcast television stations, including those licensed to the Company. The Communications Act of 1934 (the Communications Act) requires broadcasters to serve the public interest. Among other things, the FCC assigns frequency bands; determines stations’ locations and operating parameters; issues, renews, revokes and modifies station licenses; regulates and limits changes in ownership or control of station licenses; regulates equipment used by stations; regulates station employment practices; regulates certain program content and commercial matters in children’s programming; has the authority to impose penalties for violations of its rules or the Communications Act; and imposes annual fees on stations. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, as well as to the FCC’s rules, public notices and rulings for further information concerning the nature and extent of federal regulation of broadcast television stations. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and in the future may adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership transferability and profitability of the Company’s television stations and affect the ability of the Company to acquire additional stations. In addition to the matters noted above, these may include, for example, spectrum use fees, reallocation of portions of the television broadcast spectrum to other uses or reductions in the amount of spectrum allotted to television stations; restrictions on the ability of same-market television stations to engage in shared services, joint sales, or other cooperative arrangements to reduce operating costs, political advertising rates, potential restrictions on the advertising of certain products (such as alcoholic beverages), program content, increased fines for rule violations and ownership rule changes. For example, the FCC is considering in its ongoing quadrennial review of ownership rules whether to restrict the ability of same-market stations to enter into joint sales, shared services, news sharing and other cooperative agreements. The Company’s present joint sales and shared services arrangements with another television station in Augusta, Georgia, could be affected by such a change. Uncertainty about media ownership regulations and adverse economic conditions has from time-to-time dampened the acquisition market. As mentioned above, the FCC has an ongoing proceeding to revise its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule and to consider changes to other ownership rules. Due to its relationship with Berkshire Hathaway, which purchased certain of the Company’s newspaper assets through its World Media subsidiary, the Company continues to hold cross-ownership interests subject to waiver in several of the markets in which it operates and could be significantly affected by the outcome of these proceedings. 7 Additionally, a rejection or reconsideration of license renewals and waivers by the FCC could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business. Typically, the FCC begins processing renewal applications over the last month of the renewal term. Since the television license renewal cycle commenced in June 2004, however, the FCC has held up almost all television renewal applications filed by affiliates of the major networks pending FCC disposition of a backlog of indecency and other complaints against the networks’ programming. The Company filed all of its applications for renewal in a timely manner prior to the applicable expiration dates and expects its applications will be approved as the FCC works through its backlog. In these circumstances, the Communications Act provides that the Company may continue to operate under its broadcast licenses pending final action on its renewal applications. The Company’s operating results are dependent in part on the success of programming aired by the Company’s television stations, which depends in part upon factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s advertising revenues depend in part on the success of the Company’s local, network and syndicated programming. The Company makes significant commitments to acquire rights to television programs under multi-year agreements. Whether these programs succeed depends upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular, it may not be possible to sell enough advertising to cover the program’s cost. In some instances, the Company may have to replace or cancel programs before fully amortizing their costs and, as a result, may have impairments that increase operating costs. In addition, FCC rules affect the network-affiliate relationship. Among other things, these rules require network affiliation agreements to (i) prohibit networks from requiring affiliates to clear time previously scheduled for other use, (ii) permit an affiliate to preempt network programs it believes are unsuitable for its audience and (iii) permit affiliates to substitute programs believed to be of greater local or national importance than network programming. In 2008, the FCC resolved a petition to review certain of these rules by clarifying its limitations on the extent to which the networks can exert control over the operations of their affiliates. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company periodically renegotiates its major network affiliation agreements. For example, the Company recently entered into a new network affiliation agreement with NBC that extends through December 31, 2015. The Company’s network affiliation agreement with ABC expires in June 2014, and its network affiliation agreements with CBS begin to expire in December 2014. The Company anticipates that it will be required to pay commercially reasonable fees to ABC and CBS once it renews the respective affiliation agreements. However, there can be no assurance that the Company’s affiliation agreements will be renewed, or what effect, if any, these renewals may have on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If any of the Company’s stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, the Company would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short- and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: a) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; b) short-term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; c) costs of building a new or larger news operation; d) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and e) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major networks’ share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings do not necessarily indicate how a network’s programming may fare in a particular market. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by the Company, and if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income the Company derives from the affected station. In addition, syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, which may affect a station’s programming schedule, and the Company cannot be certain that it will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once its current contracts for these programs end. 8 If the Company is unable to secure or maintain carriage of its television stations’ signals over cable, telecommunication video and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, the Company’s television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations may elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent agreements for carriage. Failure to reach timely retransmission consent agreements with the relevant operators may harm the Company’s business. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to agree on acceptable terms, which could lead to reduction in its revenue from cable and satellite retransmission consent agreements. If the Company is unable to reach retransmission consent agreements with cable companies, satellite providers and telecommunication providers for the carriage of its stations’ signals, the Company could lose revenues and audience share. The Company is renegotiating retransmission agreements with cable providers as current contracts expire, and these renewals will most likely result in increased retransmission revenues for the Company. However, higher retransmission revenues may be offset, in whole or in part, by increased expenses in the form of additional network fees as described above. The FCC is considering possible mechanisms for spectrum reallocation that could affect the spectrum for the Company’s stations and adversely impact the Company’s ability to compete. The FCC is authorized to conduct a “reverse auction” at which television broadcast licensees could submit bids to receive compensation for relinquishing all or a portion of their rights in the television spectrum of their full-service and Class A stations. A licensee could bid to relinquish its channel entirely, relocate to a different channel band (UHF to VHF) or relinquish its channel and share a different channel with another broadcaster. Broadcasters choosing to share a channel would retain must-carry rights on cable systems. Under the law, the FCC may hold only one reverse auction. Concurrently with the reverse auction or after its completion, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the newly freed spectrum. The FCC must complete both auctions by 2022. Even if a television licensee does not participate in the reverse auction, the FCC nevertheless may require that it relocate its station to another channel or make technical changes to facilitate repacking the band. The FCC will have a $1.75 billion fund to compensate broadcasters and cable systems for the reasonable costs of repacking. The legislation limits the ability of broadcasters to challenge FCC repacking decisions by denying a licensee the right to a hearing before the FCC modifies its license, a right that the Communications Act otherwise would provide. The FCC issued a new rule making proposal on October 2, 2012, to develop rules to govern incentive auctions for television broadcast spectrum, re-auction of any reclaimed spectrum to wireless broadband providers and the repacking of broadcasters on the channels remaining dedicated to television broadcasting after the auction. The FCC has indicated that it hopes to complete this rule making in mid-2013 so that the auctions can take place early in 2014, but it could require several years to develop rules for the auctions that Congress has authorized. Changes in the FCC, the Administration and the Congress could affect this schedule and the ultimate shape of the auctions in ways that cannot now be predicted. The Company further cannot predict the form of any final rules that the FCC may adopt for television spectrum reallocation or whether the rules ultimately adopted would have any adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to compete. Additionally, the Company cannot predict whether the FCC or the Congress might adopt even more stringent requirements or incentives to abandon current spectrum if the initiatives now being reviewed are adopted and implemented but do not have the desired result of freeing what the agency deems to be sufficient spectrum for wireless broadband use. The Company’s Class B stockholders exercise control over most matters submitted for a vote of stockholders. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation provide for the holders of the Class A common stock voting separately and as a class to elect 30% of the Board of Directors and for the holders of the Class B common stock to elect the balance. The Company’s Class B stockholders have the sole right to vote on all other matters submitted for a vote of stockholders, except as required by law and except with respect to limited matters specifically set forth in the Articles of Incorporation. Class B common stock can be converted into Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis at the option of the holder. J. Stewart Bryan III, Chairman of the Board of Directors, controls approximately 85% of the Company’s Class B common stock and therefore has the power to determine the outcome of Class B director elections and approve significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Bryan and other Class B stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders. 9 Mr. Bryan also has the ability to prevent a change of control of the Company, regardless of whether holders of Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. As a result, the market price of the Company’s A common stock could be adversely affected. Berkshire Hathaway and its affiliates may have the ability to exercise influence over the Company. As of December 31, 2012, Berkshire Hathaway owned approximately 17% of the Class A common stock of the Company and had recommended an individual to serve as a Director of the Company in accordance with the Shareholder Agreement. Berkshire Hathaway also is the counterparty to the Company’s term loan and revolving line of credit, as described in Note 5 of Item 8. In the third quarter of 2012, the Company sold most of its newspapers and associated websites to World Media Enterprises, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway. The Company considers Berkshire Hathaway and affiliates to be related parties. By virtue of its investment in the Company’s Class A common stock, its position in nearly half of the Company’s outstanding debt and the Company’s appointment of a Director nominated by Berkshire Hathaway, Berkshire Hathaway may have the ability to exercise influence over the Company’s activities. The interests of Berkshire Hathaway may differ from those of other stockholders. Furthermore, Berkshire Hathaway’s investment in the Company’s stock means the Company continues to be impacted by the FCC’s newspaper/broadcast ownership rules which may limit its ability to acquire additional stations or could potentially require it to divest of certain stations. The Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans are currently underfunded. A declining stock market and lower interest rates could affect the value of its retirement plan assets and increase the Company’s postretirement obligations. The Company has a qualified non-contributory defined benefit retirement plan (covering substantially all employees hired before January 1, 2007), which as of December 31, 2012, was underfunded in an amount equal to $162 million. The Company also has non-contributory unfunded supplemental executive retirement and ERISA excess plans which supplement the coverage available to certain executives. There is also an unfunded plan that provides certain health and life insurance benefits to retired employees who were hired prior to 1992 and a retirement medical savings account established as of January 1, 2007. Although the Company has frozen participation and benefits under these plans, two significant elements in determining the Company’s pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting obligations. Large declines in the stock market (such as those seen in 2008) and lower discount rates (such as those seen in 2012) increase the Company’s expense and may necessitate higher cash contributions to the pension plan. The Company may experience lost advertising, damaged property and increased expense due to natural disasters. Due to the Company’s concentration in the Southeastern United States, its operations are particularly susceptible to tropical storms, tornadoes and hurricanes. These storms can cause lost advertising revenue and higher expenses if the Company’s geographic markets are threatened or are directly in the path of the storms. Additionally, the Company’s properties could experience severe damage in the event of a major storm. Impairment of the value of the Company’s intangible assets is possible, depending on future operating results and the value of its stock. The Company periodically evaluates its intangible assets to determine if their carrying values are recoverable. Factors which influence the evaluation include expected future operating results (including assumptions around revenue growth, compensation levels, capital expenditures and discount rates), the Company’s stock price and the market for buying/selling media assets. If the carrying value is no longer deemed to be recoverable, a charge to earnings may be necessary. Although those charges are non-cash in nature and do not affect the Company’s operations, they could affect future reported results of operations and increase the Company’s stockholders’ deficit. 10 Cybersecurity risks could affect the Company’s operating effectiveness. The Company uses computers in substantially all aspects of its business operations. Its revenues are increasingly dependent on digital products. Such use gives rise to cybersecurity risks such as business interruption, disclosure of nonpublic information and/or decreased advertising revenues. The Company has systems and processes in place to protect against risks associated with cyber incidents, and it maintains insurance coverage to mitigate cyber-related risks; however, depending on the nature of an incident, these protections may not be fully sufficient. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 