Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The integration of Legacy Media General and Young will present significant challenges that may reduce the anticipated potential benefits of the transaction. The Company will face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner, as well as retaining key personnel. The integration of Legacy Media General and Young will be complex and time-consuming due to the size and complexity of each organization. The principal challenges will include the following: ● integrating information systems and internal controls over accounting and financial reporting; ● integrating Legacy Media General and Young’s existing businesses; ● preserving significant business relationships; ● consolidating corporate and administrative functions; 11 ● conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between Legacy Media General and Young; and ● retaining key employees. The management of the combined company will have to dedicate substantial effort to integrating the businesses of Legacy Media General and Young. These efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from the Company’s business, corporate initiatives or strategic opportunities. If the Company is unable to integrate Legacy Media General’s and Young’s organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of the Company’s common stock may be affected adversely. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the transaction, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could also have an adverse effect upon the revenues, expenses and operating results of the Company. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated. The Company’s advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond the Company’s control. This volatility affects the Company’s operating results and may reduce its ability to repay indebtedness. The Company relies on sales of advertising time for most of its revenues and, as a result, its operating results depend on the amount of advertising revenue that it generates. In 2013, 77% of the Company’s gross operating revenues were derived from spot advertising. If the Company generates less advertising revenue, it may be more difficult for it to repay its indebtedness and meet its working capital requirements, and the value of the Company’s business may decline. The Company’s ability to sell advertising depends on: ● the levels of automobile advertising, which historically have represented approximately 20% of the Company’s gross advertising revenue; ● the health of the economy in the areas where the Company’s television stations are located and in the nation as a whole; ● the popularity of the Company’s programming and that of its competition; ● the activities of the Company’s competitors, including competitors that offer other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, multichannel video programming distributors, referred to as “MVPDs,” Internet and broadband content providers, transit advertising, direct mail, local cable systems and other print and media outlets serving in the same markets; ● the levels of political advertising, which are affected by campaign finance laws, and the ability of political candidates and political action committees to raise and spend funds, and are subject to seasonal fluctuations; ● changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where the Company’s stations are located; and ● other factors that may be beyond the Company’s control. In addition, a high percentage of the Company’s operating expenses are fixed, and a small decrease in advertising revenue could significantly impact its financial results. There can be no assurance that the Company’s advertising revenue will not be volatile in the future, and such volatility may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Financial and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on the Company’s industry, business and results of operations or financial condition. Adverse financial and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of the Company’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Poor economic and industry conditions could have a negative impact on the Company’s industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on the Company’s stations, including, among others, the automotive industry and service businesses, each of which is a significant source of the Company’s advertising revenue. Additionally, financial institutions, capital providers or other consumers may be adversely affected. Potential consequences of any financial and economic decline include: ● the financial condition of those companies that advertise on the Company’s stations may be adversely affected, causing them to spend less on advertising, which could result in a significant decline in the Company’s advertising revenue; ● the Company’s ability to pursue acquisitions or divestitures of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited; ● the possibility that the Company’s business partners could be negatively impacted and the Company’s ability to maintain these business relationships could also be impaired; and ● the Company’s ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired. If the Company is unable to secure or maintain carriage of its television stations’ signals over cable, telecommunication video and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, the Company’s television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations may elect every three years to either: (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent agreements for carriage. Failure to reach timely retransmission consent agreements with the relevant operators may harm the Company’s business. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to agree on acceptable terms, which could lead to a reduction in its revenue from cable and satellite retransmission consent agreements. If the Company is unable to reach retransmission consent agreements with cable companies, satellite providers and telecommunication providers for the carriage of its stations’ signals, the Company could lose revenues and audience share. The Company renegotiates retransmission agreements with cable and satellite providers as current contracts expire, and the Company may not be able to negotiate future agreements on terms comparable to or more favorable than its current agreements. This may cause revenues and revenue growth from its retransmission consent agreements to decrease under the renegotiated terms. Several cable system and satellite operators have jointly petitioned the FCC to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider amending the FCC’s retransmission consent rules. The FCC solicited public comment on the petition and subsequently released a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking public comment on whether it should amend its rules to: (i) modify its standards for “good faith” negotiations of retransmission consent agreements; (ii) enhance consumer notice obligations; and (iii) eliminate the FCC's network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The proceeding is currently pending, and the Company cannot predict its outcome. 13 As a television broadcaster, the Company is highly regulated, and continuation of its operations requires that it retain or renew a variety of government approvals and comply with changing federal regulations. The FCC extensively regulates the ownership, operation and sale of broadcast television stations, including those licensed to the Company. The Communications Act requires broadcasters to serve the public interest. Among other things, the FCC assigns frequency bands; determines stations’ locations and operating parameters; issues, renews, revokes and modifies station licenses; regulates and limits changes in ownership or control of station licenses; regulates equipment used by stations; regulates station employment practices; regulates certain program content and commercial matters in children’s programming; has the authority to impose penalties for violations of its rules or the Communications Act; and imposes annual fees on stations. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, as well as to the FCC’s rules, public notices and rulings for further information concerning the nature and extent of federal regulation of broadcast television stations. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and in the future may adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership transferability and profitability of the Company’s television stations and affect the ability of the Company to acquire additional stations. In addition to the matters noted above, these may include, for example, spectrum use fees; reallocation of portions of the television broadcast spectrum to other uses or reductions in the amount of spectrum allotted to television stations; restrictions on the ability of same-market television stations to engage in shared services, joint sales or other cooperative arrangements to reduce operating costs; political advertising rates; potential restrictions on the advertising of certain products (such as alcoholic beverages); program content; increased fines for rule violations; closed captioning requirements and ownership rule changes. The FCC is considering in its ongoing quadrennial review of its ownership rules, and in a separate rulemaking proceeding, whether to restrict the ability of same-market stations to enter into joint sales, shared services, news sharing and other cooperative agreements. These proposed changes could affect the Company’s present agreements to sell advertising inventory for independently owned stations in Augusta, Georgia; Albany, New York; and Lansing, Michigan. In addition, uncertainty about media ownership regulations and adverse economic conditions has dampened the acquisition market from time to time, and changes in the regulatory approval process may make it materially more expensive, or may materially delay, the Company’s ability to consummate further acquisitions. The Company requires licenses from the FCC for its operations, and a rejection or reconsideration of license renewals by the FCC could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business. Typically, the FCC begins processing renewal applications over the last month of the renewal term. However, for broadcasters to obtain license renewals (a necessary prerequisite to FCC consent for certain transactions), the FCC has required licensees to enter into tolling agreements extending the time that the FCC may prosecute indecency and other alleged violations beyond the date of the license renewals. The Company has entered into tolling agreements with the FCC, including tolling agreements in connection with the Company’s obtaining FCC consent for the merger with Young, consummated in 2013. The Company filed all of its pending applications for renewal in a timely manner prior to the applicable expiration dates and expects applications that remain pending to be approved as the FCC works through its backlog. In these circumstances, the Communications Act provides that the Company may continue to operate under its broadcast licenses pending final action on any pending renewal applications. Historically, the FCC renews the vast majority of broadcast licenses, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates or, if renewed, that the renewal terms will be for the maximum permitted period. The non-renewal or revocation of one or more of the Company’s primary licenses could have an adverse effect on its operations. The FCC is considering possible mechanisms for spectrum reallocation that could affect the spectrum for the Company’s stations and adversely impact the Company’s ability to compete. The FCC is authorized to conduct a “reverse auction” at which television broadcast licensees could submit bids to receive compensation for relinquishing all or a portion of their rights in the television spectrum of their full-service and Class A stations. A licensee could bid to relinquish its channel entirely, relocate to a different channel band (UHF to VHF) or relinquish its channel and share a different channel with another broadcaster. Broadcasters choosing to share a channel would retain must-carry rights on cable systems. Under the law, the FCC may hold only one reverse auction. Concurrently with the reverse auction or after its completion, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the newly freed spectrum. The FCC must complete both auctions by 2022. 14 Even if a television licensee does not participate in the reverse auction, the FCC nevertheless may require that it relocate its station to another channel or make technical changes to facilitate repacking the band. The FCC will have a $1.75 billion fund to compensate broadcasters and cable systems for the reasonable costs of repacking. The legislation limits the ability of broadcasters to challenge FCC repacking decisions by denying a licensee the right to a hearing before the FCC modifies its license, a right that the Communications Act otherwise would provide. The FCC issued a new rulemaking proposal on October 2, 2012, to develop rules to govern incentive auctions for television broadcast spectrum, re-auction of any reclaimed spectrum to wireless broadband providers and the repacking of broadcasters on the channels remaining dedicated to television broadcasting after the auction. The FCC’s Chairman has told Congress that the FCC hopes to complete this rulemaking in the spring of 2014 so that the auctions can take place in mid-2015. There is no assurance however, that the FCC will meet this schedule. Changes in FCC and Administration policies and changes in the Congress could affect this schedule and the ultimate shape of the auctions in ways that cannot now be predicted. The Company further cannot predict the form of any final rules that the FCC may adopt for television spectrum reallocation or whether the rules ultimately adopted would have any adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to compete. Additionally, the Company cannot predict whether the FCC or the Congress might adopt even more stringent requirements or incentives to abandon current spectrum if the initiatives now being reviewed are adopted and implemented but do not have the desired result of freeing what the agency deems to be sufficient spectrum for wireless broadband use. The Company’s operating results are dependent in part on the success of programming aired by the Company’s television stations, which depends in part upon factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s advertising revenues depend in part on the success of the Company’s local, network and syndicated programming. The Company makes significant commitments to acquire rights to television programs under multi-year agreements. Whether these programs succeed depends upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular, it may not be possible to sell enough advertising to cover the program’s cost. In some instances, the Company may have to replace or cancel programs before fully amortizing their costs and, as a result, may have impairments that increase operating costs. In addition, FCC rules affect the network-affiliate relationship. Among other things, these rules require network affiliation agreements to: (i) prohibit networks from requiring affiliates to clear time previously scheduled for other use, (ii) permit an affiliate to preempt network programs it believes are unsuitable for its audience and (iii) permit affiliates to substitute programs believed to be of greater local or national importance than network programming. In 2008, the FCC resolved a petition to review certain of these rules by clarifying its limitations on the extent to which the networks can exert control over the operations of their affiliates. In recent years, the national broadcast networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those that the Company owns. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of the Company’s stations. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material, adverse effect on the Company. The Company periodically renegotiates its major network affiliation agreements. For example, the Company has a network affiliation agreement with ABC that expires in June of 2014, a network affiliation agreement with MyNetwork TV that expires in September of 2014 and network affiliation agreements with CBS that begin to expire in December of 2014. The Company anticipates that it will be required to pay commercially reasonable fees once it renews the respective affiliation agreements. There can be no assurance, however, as to whether the Company’s affiliation agreements will be renewed or as to what effect, if any, these renewals may have on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 15 If any of the Company’s stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, the Company would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short- and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: (a) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; (b) short-term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; (c) costs of building a new or larger news operation; (d) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and (e) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major networks’ share of the audiences that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings do not necessarily indicate how a network’s programming may fare in a particular market. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by the Company, and if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material, adverse impact on the income the Company derives from the affected station. In addition, syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, which may affect a station’s programming schedule, and the Company cannot be certain that it will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once its current contracts for these programs end. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could impair its financial condition and its ability to fulfill its debt obligations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had total long-term debt of approximately $917 million. This indebtedness can have significant consequences for the Company’s creditors and investors. For example this indebtedness could: ● make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default on its indebtedness; ● impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; ● diminish the Company’s ability to withstand a downturn in its business, the industry in which it operates or the economy generally; ● limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company’s business and the industry in which it operates; and ● place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to certain competitors that may have proportionately less debt. If the Company is unable to meet its debt service obligations or if it otherwise breaches a covenant, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. The Company may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. 16 In addition, the Company’s debt agreements subject the Company to a number of financial and operational covenants and require compliance with certain financial ratios. For example, covenants under the Company’s credit agreement impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness and liens, make loans and investments, make capital expenditures, sell assets, engage in mergers, acquisitions and consolidations, enter into transactions with affiliates, purchase or redeem stock, enter into sale and leaseback transactions and pay dividends. A breach of any of the covenants imposed on the Company by the terms of the credit agreement, including any financial or operational covenants, and certain change of control events, may result in a default or event of default under the credit agreement. Following an event of default, the lenders would have the right to terminate their commitments to extend credit in the future to the Company under the agreement’s revolving credit facility and its delayed draw feature if all of the term loan is not then drawn, and accelerate the repayment of all of the Company’s indebtedness under the credit agreement. In such case, the Company may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, and the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the credit agreement, which consists of substantially all of the Company’s assets. Any acceleration in the repayment of indebtedness or related foreclosure could have an adverse effect on the Company. For a description of the Company’s indebtedness, see Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Despite the Company’s current debt levels, the Company may be able to incur significantly more debt in the future, which could increase the foregoing risks. The Company will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness. This cash may not be readily available to the Company. The Company’s ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, its indebtedness and fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon the Company’s future operating performance. The Company’s future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The Company cannot be certain it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay its current indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans are currently underfunded. A declining stock market and lower interest rates could affect the value of its retirement plan assets and increase the Company’s postretirement obligations. The Company has qualified defined benefit retirement plans covering substantially all Legacy Media General employees hired before January 1, 2007 and the IBEW Local 45 employees of KRON-TV. As of December 31, 2013, these qualified retirement plans were underfunded by approximately $88 million. The Company made contributions of $5 million and $45 million to the Legacy Media General plan in December of 2013 and January of 2014, respectively, to reduce the funding gap. The Company also has non-contributory unfunded supplemental executive retirement and ERISA excess plans which supplement the coverage available to certain Legacy Media General executives. There is also an unfunded plan that provides certain health and life insurance benefits to retired Legacy Media General employees who were hired prior to 1992 and a retirement medical savings account established as of January 1, 2007. Although the Company has frozen participation and benefits under these plans, two significant elements in determining the Company’s pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting obligations. Large declines in the stock market (such as those seen in 2008) and lower discount rates (such as those seen in 2012) increase the Company’s expense and may necessitate higher cash contributions to the qualified retirement plans. The transaction resulted in an ownership change of Legacy Media General and an ownership change of Young, in each case, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company’s ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards of Legacy Media General and Young to offset future taxable income is subject to limitation. Pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company underwent an ownership change for tax purposes (i.e., a more than 50% change in stock ownership in aggregated 5% shareholders) as a result of the merger transaction in November 2013. As a result, the use of the Young and Legacy Media General historical net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and tax credits generated prior to the ownership change will be subject to an annual Section 382 use limitation. These limitations may affect the timing of when these NOL carryforwards can be used, which, in turn, may impact the timing of when cash is used to pay the taxes of the combined company and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. 17 Impairment of the value of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets is possible, depending on future operating results and the value of its stock. The Company periodically evaluates its goodwill and other intangible assets (primarily broadcast licenses, network affiliations and advertiser relationships) to determine if their carrying values are recoverable. Factors which influence the evaluation include expected future operating results (including assumptions around revenue growth, compensation levels, capital expenditures and discount rates), the Company’s stock price and the market for buying/selling media assets. If the carrying value is no longer deemed to be recoverable, a charge to earnings may be necessary. Although those charges are non-cash in nature and do not affect the Company’s operations, they could affect future reported results of operations and reduce the Company’s stockholders’ equity. Cybersecurity risks could affect the Company’s operating effectiveness. The Company uses computers in substantially all aspects of its business operations. Its revenues are increasingly dependent on digital products. Such use exposes the Company to potential cyber incidents resulting from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. The results of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, business interruption, disclosure of nonpublic information, decreased advertising revenues, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. The Company has systems and processes in place to protect against risks associated with cyber incidents, and it maintains insurance coverage to mitigate cyber-related risks; however, depending on the nature of an incident, these protections may not be fully sufficient. The Company may be unable to sufficiently reduce operating costs to offset potential revenue declines. The Company previously has taken measures to manage its operating costs by reducing headcount, freezing or limiting certain employee benefits and implementing other cost-control measures across the Company. In addition, during and following the disposition of its newspapers in 2012, Legacy Media General took aggressive actions to reduce its corporate overhead costs. While these expense reductions have not significantly impacted the Company’s ability to deliver news to its local markets or serve its advertisers, future expense reductions may diminish the quality of the Company’s products and limit its ability to generate revenue. If further reductions in employee compensation and benefits are necessary, the Company may not be able to attract and retain key employees. Furthermore, significant portions of the Company’s expenses are fixed in nature and may not be reduced easily if revenue declines occur adversely affecting the Company’s operating results. The Company operates in a very competitive business environment. The television industry is highly competitive, and this competition can draw viewers and advertisers from the Company’s stations. Cable providers, direct broadcast satellite companies and telecommunication companies are developing new technologies that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television industry into ever more specialized niche markets. Competitors who target programming to such sharply defined markets may gain an advantage in garnering television advertising revenues. In addition, technological advancements and the resulting increase in programming alternatives, such as pay-per-view, home video and entertainment systems, video-on-demand, mobile video and the Internet have created new types of competition to television broadcast stations and will increase competition for household audiences and advertisers. Technologies that allow viewers to digitally record, store and play back television programming may decrease viewership of commercials as recorded by media measurement services and, as a result, may lower the Company’s advertising revenues. In addition, since digital television technology allows broadcasting of multiple channels within the additional allocated spectrum, this technology could expose the Company to additional competition from programming alternatives. The Company cannot provide any assurances that it will remain competitive in light of these developing technologies. 18 The Company faces competition from: ● other local free over-the-air broadcast television and radio stations; ● telecommunication companies; ● cable and satellite system operators; ● Internet search engines, Internet service providers and websites; and new technologies including mobile television; and ● other sources of news, information and entertainment such as newspapers, movie theaters, live sporting events and home video products, including digital video disc players. Furthermore, Internet programming services such as Aereo and FilmOnX have begun offering Internet-based program services in an attempt to retransmit existing broadcast stations without negotiating for carriage with the broadcaster or payment of any copyright or carriage fee. Aereo houses thousands of tiny antennas in its data center, and each customer is assigned a specific antenna to make a “copy” of the broadcast. Broadcasters have sued Aereo in multiple jurisdictions around the country seeking to shut down its service. The outcome of such litigation is not certain at the present time and the issue may be settled at the U.S. Supreme Court later in 2014. Aereo’s continued future success could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s ability to adapt to changes in technology in a timely manner may affect its business prospects and results of operations. The Company’s television stations are located in highly competitive markets. Accordingly, the results of the Company’s operations will be dependent upon the ability of each station to compete successfully in its market, and there can be no assurance that any of the Company’s stations will be able to maintain or increase its current audience share or revenue share. To the extent that certain of the Company’s competitors have or may, in the future, obtain greater resources, the Company’s ability to compete successfully in its broadcasting markets may be impeded. The Company may experience disruptions in its business due to natural disasters, terrorism or similar events. Because the Company has a high concentration of television stations in the southeastern United States, its operations are particularly susceptible to tropical storms, tornadoes and hurricanes. If natural disasters, acts of terrorism, political turmoil, or hostilities occur, one or more of the Company’s broadcast stations could experience a loss of technical facilities for an unknown period of time and would, in addition, lose advertising revenues during such time period. In addition, if natural disasters, acts of terrorism, political turmoil or hostilities occur, even if the Company does not experience a loss of technical facilities, the Company’s broadcast operations may switch to continual news coverage, which would cause the loss of advertising revenues due to the suspension of advertiser-supported commercial programming. 19 The Company could be adversely affected by labor disputes and legislation and other union activity. The cost of producing and distributing entertainment programming has increased substantially in recent years due to, among other things, the increasing demands of creative talent and industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. The Company’s program suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and on-air and other talent, trade employees and others, some of whom are subject to these collective bargaining agreements. Also, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 200 of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions under collective localized bargaining agreement with two different unions: the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. Failure to renew these agreements, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute, including strikes or work stoppages, could adversely affect the Company’s business by causing, among other things, delays in production that lead to declining viewership, a significant disruption of operations and reductions in the profit margins of the Company’s programming and the amounts the Company can charge advertisers for time. The Company’s stations also broadcast certain professional sporting events, including NBA basketball games, MLB baseball games, NFL football games and other sporting events, and the Company’s viewership may be adversely affected by player strikes or lockouts, which could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues and results of operations. Any changes in the existing labor laws may increase these risks. Risks Related to the Ownership of Media General Common Stock Standard General owns approximately 30% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This may allow Standard General to exercise influence over the Company. Standard General controls approximately 30% of the voting power of all of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This percentage may be increased to the extent any stockholders convert their voting common stock to non-voting common stock in accordance with the terms of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. In addition, a representative of Standard General is a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. As a result, Standard General may have influence over the management of the Company. In addition, Standard General’s substantial share ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Standard General’s interest may not be consistent with the interests of the Company’s other shareholders. Provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and applicable state corporation laws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult and could deprive stockholders of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of the common stock owned by them. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in the management of the Company without the consent of the Board of Directors, which could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult. These provisions include: (i) the ability of the Board of Directors to determine whether to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used, to the extent consistent with its legal duties, to issue a series of stock to persons friendly to management in order to attempt to block an acquisition action by a hostile acquirer or to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer, (ii) the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors or the president, which may delay the ability of stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action and (iii) advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply in order to nominate candidates to the Board of Directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect such acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Under the Virginia Stock Corporation Act (“VSCA”) and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, stockholders will be prohibited from taking action by written consent unless the consent is unanimous, which makes action by written consent difficult to obtain and forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in its management. Further, the “affiliated transaction” provisions of Virginia law prohibit, subject to certain exceptions, any person who becomes the beneficial owner of more than 10% of any class of a corporation's voting securities, without the prior consent of that corporation’s board of directors, from engaging in specified transactions with such corporation for a period of three years following the date upon which the stockholder acquires the requisite number of securities. The types of transactions covered by the law include certain mergers, share exchanges, material dispositions of corporate assets not in the ordinary course of business, dissolutions, reclassifications and recapitalizations. The Company did not opt out of this law in its Articles of Incorporation. 20 The Articles of Incorporation contain provisions allowing the Company to restrict the ownership, conversion and proposed ownership of common stock for reasons related to compliance with the FCC's rules and regulations. Under the Articles of Incorporation, the Company may restrict the ownership, conversion or proposed ownership of shares of common stock by any person if such ownership, conversion or proposed ownership, either alone or in combination with other actual or proposed ownership of shares of capital stock of any other person, would impose restrictions upon the Company or its subsidiaries under, or cause a violation of, the laws administered or enforced by the FCC, including the Communications Act, which are referred to as “federal communications laws.” The Company may enforce such restrictions if it believes the ownership, conversion or proposed ownership by a stockholder of common stock: ● would be in violation of any federal communications laws; ● would (or could reasonably be expected to) materially limit or impair any existing or proposed business activity of the Company or its subsidiaries under the federal communications laws; ● would materially limit or impair under the federal communications laws the acquisition of an attributable interest in a full-power television station by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which it has entered into a definitive agreement with a third party; ● would (or could reasonably be expected to) cause the Company or any of its subsidiaries to be subject to any rule, regulation, order or policy under the federal communications laws having or which reasonably could be expected to have a material effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries would not be subject but for such ownership, conversion or proposed ownership; or ● would require prior approval from the FCC and such approval has not be obtained. The restrictions that the Company may enact include refusing to permit the transfer of shares, suspending rights of share ownership, requiring the conversion of voting common stock to non-voting common stock, and other remedies. These provisions may restrict the ability to acquire, own and/or vote shares of voting common stock. Sales of common stock by former equityholders of Young may have an adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. In the transaction, equityholders of Young received approximately 60.2 million shares of Media General’s common stock. Certain equityholders of Young who received shares of Media General common stock in the transaction have the right to require Media General to register those shares under a registration rights agreement, subject to certain limitations. The registration rights agreement required the filing of a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering such shares, which may be used by the former Young equityholders party to such agreement to facilitate the sale of their shares under certain circumstances. The Company filed a Form S-3 in January 2014. Former Young equityholders party to the registration rights agreement also have the right to demand registration of their shares for sale in underwritten offerings, subject to certain limitations, and the right to participate in registered underwritten offerings conducted by the Company. Sales by such equityholders of their shares of common stock, or the possibility of such sales, pursuant to an underwritten offering or otherwise, may have an adverse effect on the per share price of the Company’s common stock. 21 The Company does not intend to pay cash dividends on its common stock for at least so long as it is prohibited from doing so under its credit agreement. The Company’s credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of dividends. In addition, applicable state law may impose requirements that may impede the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. Therefore, it is likely that any return on investment for the Company’s shareholders, at least in the near term, will occur only if the market price of the Company’s common stock appreciates. Former holders of Class A Common Stock may be deemed to hold “attributable interests” in the Company. The laws, rules and regulations administered by the FCC contain restrictions on the ownership and control of broadcast licenses. The FCC generally applies its ownership limits to persons who hold “attributable interests” in a broadcast license. Prior to the transaction, Legacy Media General’s dual-class stock structure, pursuant to which the majority of the voting power of Legacy Media General was held by holders of Class B common stock, mitigated the risk that the interests of any holders of publicly traded shares of Class A common stock would be deemed to have an attributable interest in Media General. However, following the merger transaction, the broadcast or other media interests of holders holding five percent or greater of Media General’s voting common stock are generally deemed to have an attributable interest in the Company and may limit the Company’s acquisition or ownership of broadcast stations in particular markets. While the Company’s Articles of Incorporation have provisions that the Company may use to prevent such an effect by limiting the holding of attributable interests in the Company to those stockholders lacking conflicting media interests, there can be no assurance that these provisions as applied will be completely effective. The Company has the ability to issue preferred stock, which could affect the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation allow the Board of Directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock and set the terms of such preferred stock. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely affect the dividend and liquidation rights of holders of the Company’s common stock. The public price and trading volume of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The price and trading volume of the Company’s common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price or trading volume of the Company’s common stock include: ● general market and economic conditions and market trends, including in the television broadcast industry and the financial markets generally; ● the political, economic and social situation in the United States; ● actual or expected variations in operating results; ● variation in quarterly operating results; ● inability to meet projections in revenue; ● announcements by the Company or the Company’s competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or other business developments; ● adoption of new accounting standards affecting the industry in which the Company operates; ● operations of competitors and the performance of competitors’ common stock; ● litigation or governmental action involving or affecting the Company or its subsidiaries; ● changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 22 ● recruitment or departure of key personnel; ● purchases or sales of blocks of the Company’s common stock; and ● operating and stock performance of the companies that investors may consider to be comparable. There can be no assurance that the price of the Company’s common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. The stock market in recent years has experienced considerable price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies and that could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. Stock price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of shares of the common stock is low. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of the Company’s common stock declines significantly, which may cause the Company to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company’s management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 