Item 1A. Risk Factors The following paragraphs describe several risk factors which are unique to the Company: The Company is subject to risks of decreased advertising revenues and potentially adverse effects of emerging technologies. The Company’s revenue is primarily driven by advertiser spending, which is generally lower in the first and third fiscal quarters as consumer activity slows during those periods. Additionally, advertising revenue in the Broadcast Division tends to be higher in even-numbered years, when both political and Olympics coverage occurs. The level of advertising revenue is also dependent on a variety of factors including: • economic conditions in the Southeast, particularly in the Tampa, Richmond, and Winston-Salem markets; • competition from other newspapers, television broadcasters, and Internet sites; • mergers and bankruptcies of large advertisers. The Company’s two largest industry segments, Publishing and Broadcast, operate in mature businesses. Today’s “on demand” culture has shifted consumers’ historical newspaper reading and television viewing behaviors, particularly among younger segments of the population. As a result, the Company’s revenues are being challenged by new, often-times Internet-based, competitors who have differing business models. The shift in consumer behaviors has the potential to modify the terms and conditions of future network affiliation agreements. Additionally, these trends are being exacerbated by the ongoing and deepening economic and credit crises. The Company’s future success is dependent upon its ability to evolve and adapt its Publishing and Broadcast operations to this changing business environment, and to ensure the continued growth of its Interactive Media businesses. A significant change in the price of newsprint will make operating results more volatile. Newsprint, the Company’s most significant raw material, is a commodity whose price continually responds to supply/demand imbalances. Historically, its price has been quite volatile. Higher newsprint prices have, in the past, provided a net benefit to the Company by virtue of its one-third investment in SPNC. However, as indicated 5 Table of Contents above, with the sale of SPNC in early 2008, the Company is now solely a newsprint consumer. Consequently, effective with that sale, lower newsprint prices in the future would benefit the Company’s operating results and higher newsprint prices in the future would adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company is limiting its newsprint exposure by lowering its consumption through conservation efforts including reducing web-widths at its newspapers to 44 inches. The television broadcasting industry is highly regulated. The ownership, operation and sale of broadcast television stations, including those licensed to the Company, are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC, which engages in extensive regulation of the broadcasting industry under authority granted by the Communications Act, including authority to promulgate rules and regulations governing broadcasting. The Communications Act requires broadcasters to serve the public interest. Among other things, the FCC assigns frequency bands; determines stations’ locations and operating parameters; issues, renews, revokes and modifies station licenses; regulates and limits changes in ownership or control of station licenses; regulates equipment used by stations; regulates station employment practices; regulates certain program content and commercial matters in children’s programming; has the authority to impose penalties for violations of its rules or the Communications Act; and imposes annual fees on stations. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, as well as to the FCC’s rules, public notices and rulings for further information concerning the nature and extent of federal regulation of broadcast television stations. Congress and the FCC have under consideration, and in the future may adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership transferability and profitability of the Company’s broadcast television stations and affect the ability of the Company to acquire additional stations. In addition to the matters noted above, these include, for example, spectrum use fees, political advertising rates, potential restrictions on the advertising of certain products (such as alcoholic beverages), program content, increased fines for rule violations and ownership rule changes. Other matters that could potentially affect the Company’s broadcast properties include technological innovations and developments generally affecting competition in the mass communications industry for viewers or advertisers, such as home video recorders and players, satellite radio and television services, cable television systems, newspapers, outdoor advertising, and Internet delivered video programming services. As indicated previously, the FCC adopted a new newspaper/ broadcast ownership rule in December 2007. Nevertheless, uncertainty about media ownership regulations and adverse economic conditions may continue to dampen the acquisition market until the courts have had an opportunity to review the FCC’s recent action and, perhaps, until Congress considers whether it wishes to take any further action in this area. Additionally, a rejection or reconsideration of license renewals and waivers by the FCC could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business. As described above, some parties have requested that the FCC reconsider its decision to grant waivers to the Company’s newspaper television combinations in Columbus, Georgia; Florence – Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; and Tri-Cities (Tennessee and Virginia). Typically, the FCC begins processing renewal applications over the last month of the renewal term. Since the television license renewal cycle commenced in June 2004, however, the FCC has held up almost all television renewal applications filed by affiliates of the major networks pending FCC disposition of a backlog of indecency and other complaints against the networks’ programming. The Company filed all of its applications for renewal in a timely manner prior to the applicable expiration dates and expects its applications will be approved as the FCC works through its backlog. Although the Company strongly supports the complete elimination of all newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership restrictions, the FCC’s recent modification of the cross-ownership rule could contribute generally to increased realignments of media entities and the convergence of various types of media. The opportunity for realignments and convergence may benefit the Company but, as other companies also may realign their properties, regulatory changes also could increase competition in the Company’s markets and could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results. A declining stock market and lower interest rates could affect the value of the Company’s retirement plan assets and increase its retirement obligations. An unexpected rise in health care costs would adversely impact the Company’s postretirement obligations. The Company has a funded, qualified non-contributory defined benefit retirement plan which covers substantially all employees hired before January 1, 2007, and non-contributory unfunded supplemental executive retirement and ERISA excess plans which supplement the coverage available to certain executives. There is also an unfunded plan that provides certain health and life insurance benefits to retired employees who were hired prior to 1992 and a retirement medical savings account established as of January 1, 2007. Two significant elements in determining pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting benefit obligations. Large declines in the stock market such as those seen in 2008 and lower rates of return could increase the Company’s expense and cause additional cash contributions to the pension plan. The Company partially mitigated this risk by freezing the service accrual in the defined benefit retirement plan effective January 1, 2007. The Company currently anticipates that the annual growth rate in the per capita costs of covered health care benefits will decrease gradually between 2009 and 2015; however should the actual growth rate deviate significantly from this assumption, the Company’s postretirement obligations could increase. The Company may experience lost advertising, damaged property and increased expense due to natural disasters. Due to the Company’s concentration in the Southeast United States, its operations are particularly susceptible to tropical storms and hurricanes. These storms can cause lost advertising revenue and higher expenses if either the Company’s broadcasting or newspaper markets are threatened or are directly in the path of the storms. Additionally, the Company’s property could experience severe damage in the event of a major storm. Covenants under the Company’s financing arrangements could restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends or make capital expenditures. In late 2008, the Company amended its credit agreements. As amended, the Company’s leverage and interest coverage ratios were made less stringent in return for, among other things, a reduction in the outstanding commitment by lenders and higher interest rates. With that amendment, the Company’s capacity to pay dividends and make capital expenditures as well as specified requirements regarding debt repayment were tied to the Company’s leverage ratio. The Company’s ability to manage these factors may be affected by events beyond its control including further deterioration of economic conditions. If the Company’s leverage ratio migrates to higher levels, these restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends and to make capital expenditures, and would mandate higher levels of debt repayments. Further impairment of the value of the Company’s intangible assets is possible, depending on the value of the Company’s stock and future operating results. Although the Company has written down its intangible assets (including goodwill) by more than $900 million in 2008, further impairment charges are possible. The Company periodically evaluates its intangible assets to determine if their carrying values are recoverable. Factors which influence the evaluation include the Company’s stock price and its expected future operating results. If the carrying value is no longer deemed to be recoverable, a charge to earnings may be 6 Table of Contents necessary. Although those charges are non-cash in nature and do not affect the Company’s operations, they could affect future reported results of operations and reduce the Company’s stockholders’ equity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 