ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a summary of the material risks to an investment in our securities. We face risks associated with significant international operations We operate on a global basis, with approximately 74% of our net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company’s exposure to risks in any one country or part of the world, it also means that we are subject to the full range of risks associated with significant international operations, including, but not limited to: • changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenue we receive from non-U.S. markets or increase our labor or supply costs in those markets, • political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets, and • changes in foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other government controls. We monitor our foreign currency exposure to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements through a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and foreign currency hedging of certain costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these measures will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business We face vigorous competition around the world, including from other large, multinational consumer product companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. We face this competition in several aspects of our business, including, but not limited to: • the pricing of products, 3 • promotional activities, • advertising, and • new product introductions. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such activities or initiatives by competitors or to successfully counteract them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to such activities and initiatives may affect our financial performance in the relevant period. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brands, whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to protect our patent, trademark and trade dress rights and to defend against related challenges brought by competitors. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which is experiencing increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, especially in developed markets such as the U.S. and Europe, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining strength than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts, allowances or slotting fees which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products and other conditions. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains, which are typically sold at lower prices, are a source of competition for certain of our product lines. The growth of our business depends on the successful development and introduction of new products Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products and line extensions, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, our ability to create new products and line extensions and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can • develop and fund technological innovations, • receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection, • obtain governmental approvals and registrations of regulated products, • comply with Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other governmental regulations, and • anticipate successfully consumer needs and preferences. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Rising material and other costs and our increasing dependence on key suppliers could adversely impact our profitability Raw and packaging material commodities such as resins, tallow, corn and soybeans are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs of these commodities and other costs, such as energy costs, may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. In addition, our move to global suppliers, to achieve cost reductions and simplify our business, has resulted in an increasing dependence on key suppliers. For certain materials, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry and government standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. 4 Our results could suffer if we do not implement our 2004 Restructuring Program according to our expectations In December 2004, we commenced the 2004 Restructuring Program, a four-year restructuring and business-building program to enhance our global leadership position in our core businesses. This program presents significant organizational challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations and business partners who may provide us manufacturing or administrative services. We cannot assure you that: • the 2004 Restructuring Program will be implemented in accordance with the planned timetable, • the actual charges incurred will not exceed the estimated charges, or • the full extent of the expected savings will be realized. A failure to implement the 2004 Restructuring Program in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad The manufacture and sale of consumer products is subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad. This regulation includes, but is not limited to, the following: • in the U.S., our products and the manufacture of our products are subject to regulation, by the Food and Drug Administration, as well as by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Environmental Protection Agency, • also in the U.S., claims and advertising with respect to our products are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, • we are also subject to regulation in the foreign countries in which we manufacture and sell our products and by state and local agencies in the U.S. that regulate in parallel to the above agencies, and • our selling practices are regulated by competition authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. A finding that we are in violation of, or out of compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have obtained all required regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell our products. New or more restrictive regulations, however, could have an adverse impact on our business. For example, while the FDA has approved the use of triclosan in Colgate Total toothpaste, the use of triclosan in certain consumer products is under regulatory review in Europe and in certain other countries. Also, in the U.S., the FDA is examining the use of certain anti-microbials, including triclosan, in anti-microbial hand soaps. A finding by the FDA or an overseas regulatory authority that triclosan should not be used in certain consumer products could have an adverse impact on our business, as could negative reactions to triclosan from consumers, our trade customers or non-governmental organizations. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global manufacturing activities As a company engaged in manufacturing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: • availability of key raw materials, • industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues, • environmental events, • strikes and other labor disputes, 5 • disruptions in logistics, • loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, • product quality or safety issues, • licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, • as well as natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. While we have business continuity and contingency plans for our manufacturing sites which are strategically located around the world, significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business. Acquisitions may not be successful From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions, such as the June 2004 acquisition of GABA, a European oral care company. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including, but not limited to, whether we can: • successfully integrate the acquired business, • achieve projected synergies and performance targets, and • retain key personnel. Depending on the significance of the acquisition, the failure to achieve expected synergies or projections could have an adverse effect on our results. The risks described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the above risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the value of our securities to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 