Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. We Purchase A Large Number of Products From One Supplier. Production-Related Risks With This Supplier Could Jeopardize Our Ability To Realize Anticipated Sales And Profits. As part of the sale of our Hong Kong-based manufacturing operations, Applica entered into a supply agreement with an affiliate of the purchaser, Elec-Tech International (H.K.) Company, Ltd. Elec-Tech accounted for approximately 35% of Applica’s total purchases in 2005 and 14% in 2004. In December 2005, the supply agreement was terminated by Applica as the result of material breaches by Elec-Tech. Management and representatives of Elec-Tech have met on several occasions to discuss these and other matters and to negotiate the terms of future business between the parties, although no new supply agreement has been executed. We intend to continue to purchase products from Elec-Tech, and in order for us to realize sales and operating profits at anticipated levels, Elec-Tech must deliver high quality products in a timely manner. Among others, the following factors could have a negative effect on our ability to realize sales and profits: • substandard product quality; and • production schedule realization. We expect Elec-Tech to remain a significant supplier in 2006. We Are Dependent On Key Personnel And The Loss Or These Key Personnel Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Success. We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel and the loss of any key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Generally, a company will experience higher personnel turnover during its exploration of strategic alternatives. This could result in increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. Our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could impair our ability to manage and operate our business effectively. The New York Stock Exchange Has Notified Us That We Are Not In Compliance With Its Continued Listing Criteria. If We Are Delisted By The NYSE, The Price And Liquidity Of Our Common Stock Will Be Negatively Affected. In August 2005, we received notice from the New York Stock Exchange stating that we are no longer in compliance with its continued listing criteria, which require, among other things, that a listed company have a market capitalization of not less than $75 million and total shareholders’ equity of not less than $75 million. In order to maintain the continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE, we are following the NYSE’s rules and procedures applicable to listed companies which fail to meet the continued listing criteria. We are currently subject to quarterly monitoring by the NYSE for compliance with its continued listing criteria. We cannot assure you that the NYSE will maintain our listing in the future. In the event that our common stock is delisted by the NYSE, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE’s continued listing criteria in the foreseeable future, we will seek to have our stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we cannot assure you that, if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid as it has been on the NYSE. As a result, if we are delisted by the NYSE or transfer our listing to another exchange or quotation system, the market price for our common stock may become more volatile than it has been historically. -10- We Depend On Third Party Suppliers For The Manufacturing Of All Of Our Products Which Subjects Us To Additional Risks. Any inability of our suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in our suppliers could be disruptive and costly to us. Our ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact our success in meeting customer demand. Any significant failure by us to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply would have a material adverse effect on us. All of the products we sell are manufactured by unaffiliated third party suppliers located primarily in China. International operations are subject to risks including, among others: • currency fluctuations; • labor unrest; • political instability; • lack of developed infrastructure; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. The foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our supply of products, our financial condition or the results of our operations. There Can Be No Assurance That Any Strategic Transaction Will Occur Or, If One Is Undertaken, Of Its Potential Terms or Timing. We recently announced our intent to explore strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. As a result, in February 2006, we engaged Banc of America Securities as our financial advisor to assist the Board and management in this process, which could include a sale or merger of Applica. There can be no assurance that any transaction will occur or, if one is undertaken, of its potential terms or timing. The Failure Of Our Business Strategy Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. Additionally, as part of our business strategy, we plan to: • maximize utility of our brand assets • leverage innovation and strategic marketing to drive profitability • create long-term cost and quality advantages for our customers; and • optimize our supply chain. Our strategic objectives may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in increased revenue, profitability or market presence. Executing our strategy may also place a strain on our production, information technology systems and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must maintain a high level of quality, properly manage our third party suppliers, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management systems, including our database management, inventory control and distribution systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth in any one or more of these areas. -11- Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Fluctuation of the Chinese Currency In 1994, China pegged the renminbi (also called the yuan) at an exchange rate of 8.28 to the U.S. dollar. U.S. groups have argued that the peg made China’s exports to the U.S. cheaper, and U.S. exports to China more expensive, thus greatly contributing to China’s trade surplus with the U.S. In July 2005, China ended its peg to the dollar and let the renminbi fluctuate versus a basket of currencies. Immediately, the new renminbi rate revalued the currency by 2.1% to 8.11 to the dollar. At March 10, 2006, the renminbi exchange rate was 8.05 to the dollar. Because a substantial number of our products are imported from China, the floating currency could result in significant fluctuations in our product costs and could have a material effect on our business. We Depend On Purchases From Several Large Customers And Any Significant Decline In These Purchases Or Pressure From These Customers To Reduce Prices Would Have A Negative Effect On Our Business. Due to the consolidation of the retail industry, our customer base has become relatively concentrated. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., our largest single customer, accounted for approximately 32% of our 2005 consolidated net sales, 35% of our 2004 consolidated net sales and 30% of our 2003 consolidated net sales. Our top three customers accounted for approximately 48%, 51% and 44% of consolidated net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our customers, we do not have any long-term supply contracts and purchases are generally made using individual purchase orders. We must receive a continuous flow of new orders from our large, high-volume retail customers; however, we may be unable to continually meet the needs of our customers. In addition, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories or require us to incur additional expenses to expedite delivery. Additionally, certain of our larger customers are using their own private label brands on household appliances that compete directly with our products. Increases In Costs Of Products Will Reduce Our Profitability. Factors that are largely beyond our control, such as movements in commodity prices for the specific materials our products are made of, may affect the future cost of our products. As an example, our products require a substantial amount of plastic. Because the primary resource used in manufactured plastics is petroleum, the cost and availability of plastic varies to a great extent with the price of petroleum. In recent years, we have experienced increases in prices of petroleum, as well as steel, aluminum and copper. Our Business Is Very Sensitive To The Strength Of The U.S. Retail Market And Weakness In This Market Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The strength of the retail economy in the United States has a significant impact on our performance. Weakness in consumer confidence and poor financial performance by mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, department stores or any of our other customers would result in lost sales by us. A general slowdown in the retail sector, as happened in 2002 and 2003, would result in additional pricing and marketing support pressures on us. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Currency Fluctuations In Our International Operations. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and most of our revenues are collected in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs, such as payroll, rent and indirect operational costs, are denominated in other currencies, such as Mexican pesos and Hong Kong dollars. In addition, while a small portion of our revenues are collected in foreign currencies, such as Canadian dollars, Argentine pesos, Colombian pesos, Chilean pesos and Venezuelan bolivars, a significant portion of the related cost of goods sold are denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. -12- Our Business Can Be Adversely Affected By Newly Acquired Businesses Or Product Lines. Applica may acquire partial or full ownership in businesses or may acquire rights to market and distribute particular products or lines of products. The acquisition of a business or of the rights to market specific products or use specific product names may involve a financial commitment by Applica, either in the form of cash or stock consideration. In the case of a new license such commitments are usually in the form of prepaid royalties and future minimum royalty payments. There is no guarantee that we will acquire businesses and develop products that will contribute positively to our earnings. Anticipated synergies may not materialize, cost savings may be less than expected, sales of products may not meet expectations, and acquired businesses may carry unexpected liabilities. Our Future Success Requires Us To Develop New And Innovative Products On A Consistent Basis In Order To Increase Revenues And We May Not Be Able To Do So. We believe that our future success is heavily dependent upon our ability to continue to make innovations in our existing products and to develop, manufacture and market new products, which generally carry higher margins. We may not be successful in the introduction, marketing and manufacture of any new products or product innovations and we may not be able to develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our Business Involves The Potential For Product Recalls And Product Liability Claims Against Us. As a distributor of consumer products, we are subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the Consumer Products Safety Commission could require us to repurchase or recall one or more of our products. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some cities and states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. Any repurchase or recall of our products could be costly to us and could damage our reputation. If we were required to remove, or we voluntarily remove, our products from the market, our reputation could be tarnished and we might have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. We do not currently maintain product recall insurance. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of our products is alleged to have caused property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Although we maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. In addition, product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. Finally, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In particular, product recalls or product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product. This could be true even if the claims themselves are ultimately settled for immaterial amounts. We cannot assure you that this type of adverse publicity will not occur or that product liability claims will not be made in the future. The Bankruptcy Or Financial Difficulty Of Any Major Customer Or Fluctuations In The Financial Condition Of The Retail Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We sell our products to distributors and retailers, including mass merchandisers, department stores and wholesale clubs. The financial difficulties of our customers or the loss of, or a substantial decrease in, the volume of purchases by a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the retail industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In 2002 and early 2003, several large retail chains and distributors declared bankruptcy or liquidated, two of which were large customers of ours. We maintain credit protection on certain of our significant customers and continually monitor and evaluate our customer’s credit status. In addition, we attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing or liquidation by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on us. -13- Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Retailer Inventory Management. Changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult for us. Because of our significant reliance on unaffiliated third party suppliers in the Far East, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we generally commit to production in advance of customer orders. If retailers significantly change their inventory management strategies or if they or we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories, or may find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Distribution difficulties may have an adverse effect on our business by increasing the amount of inventory and the cost of warehousing inventory. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Trade Relations With China. Most all of our products are imported from The Peoples’ Republic of China. China gained Permanent Normal Trade Relations with the United States when it acceded to the World Trade Organization, effective January 2002. The United States imposes the lowest applicable tariffs on exports from PNTR countries to the United States. In order to maintain its WTO membership, China has agreed to several requirements, including the elimination of caps on foreign ownership of Chinese companies, lowering tariffs and publicizing its laws. China may not meet these requirements, it may not remain a member of the WTO, and its PNTR trading status may not be maintained. If China’s WTO membership is withdrawn or if PNTR status for goods produced in China were removed, there could be a substantial increase in tariffs imposed on goods of Chinese origin entering the United States which would adversely impact our sales. If We Are Unable To Renew The Black & Decker® Trademark License Agreement, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. We license the Black & Decker brand for use in marketing small household appliances in North America, Latin America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean. Sales of Black & Decker® branded products represented approximately 78% of our total revenue in 2005, 79% in 2004 and 70% in 2003. In October 2004, Applica and The Black & Decker Corporation extended the license agreement through December 2010. Renewals, if mutually agreed upon, will be for five-year periods and will require the payment of minimum annual royalties, which are currently $12.5 million. The Infringement Or Loss Of Our Proprietary Rights Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Business. We believe that our rights in owned and licensed names are a significant part of our business and that our ability to create demand for our products is dependent to a large extent on our ability to exploit these trademarks. The breadth or degree of protection that these trademarks afford us may be insufficient, or we may be unable to successfully leverage our trademarks in the future. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. We may be unable to successfully assert our intellectual property rights or these rights may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any such inability, particularly with respect to names in which we have made significant capital investments, or a successful intellectual property challenge or infringement proceeding against us, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, because our business strategy is heavily dependent upon the use of brand names, adverse publicity with respect to products that are not sold by us, but bear the same brand names, could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, we distribute products with features for which we have filed or obtained licenses for patents and design registrations in the United States and in several foreign countries. Our patent applications may not ever be obtained. If obtained, they may not afford us commercially significant protection of our technologies. Our Operating Results Are Affected By Seasonality. Our business is highly seasonal with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. We experience higher revenues in the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year primarily due to increased demand by customers for our products in the late summer for “back-to-school” sales and in the fall for the holiday season. This seasonality has -14- also resulted in additional interest expense to us during the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year due to an increased need to borrow funds to maintain sufficient working capital to support such increased demand. We Compete With Other Large Companies That Produce Similar Products. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that competition is based upon several factors, including price, quality, access to retail shelf space, product features and enhancements, brand names, new product introductions, marketing support and distribution systems. We compete with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources than we have. We also compete with our retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and importers and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce our prices to meet competition. Our Debt Agreements Contain Covenants That Restrict Our Ability To Take Certain Actions. Our credit facility, term loan and the indenture for our 10% notes impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, sell assets, create liens, make capital expenditures and investments, and otherwise enter into certain transactions outside the ordinary course of business. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain a minimum borrowing base availability or to meet certain financial tests. Our ability to continue to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt agreements may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions would result in a default under one or all of the debt agreements, in which case our lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable, foreclose on the assets securing the debt or cease to provide additional revolving loans or letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government Regulations Could Adversely Impact Our Operations. Throughout the world, most federal, state, provincial and local authorities require Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical appliances in those jurisdictions. Most of our products have such certifications. However, our products may not continue to meet such specifications. Many foreign, federal, state and local governments also have enacted laws and regulations that govern the labeling and packaging of products and limit the sale of product containing certain materials deemed to be environmentally sensitive. A determination that we are not in compliance with such rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Additionally, many of our pest control products are subject to laws and regulations by state and federal environmental agencies. A determination that we are not in compliance with such rules and regulations could result in the prohibition of sales of our products and the imposition of fines. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. -15- 