Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors could adversely impact our business. Our business is significantly impacted by changes in general and local economic conditions. Our business is substantially affected by changes in general economic factors outside of our control, such as: a. employment levels and job growth; b. population growth; c. housing demand or modernization of existing homes; d. consumer confidence (which can be substantially affected by external conditions, including international hostilities involving the United States); and e. the availability of financing for homeowners and homebuyers. We may lose business to competitors and may otherwise be unable to favorably compete. See “Business-Competition” section above. Several of the companies that compete with the Company have substantially greater financial and other resources. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to be able to respond effectively to competitive pressures. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in sales, prices, volumes and gross margins that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to gain market share from competitors. 4 Table of Contents We are dependent on third party suppliers to deliver equipment parts and accessories to us for resale to contractors. We have no long term contracts with our suppliers. We are at risk that our suppliers may cease making their products available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The loss of one or both of our two major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon uninterrupted delivery of products. Our Company depends upon transportation of products from our suppliers and to our customers. Any interruption or cessation of the transportation of these products by national or regional stoppages, fuel shortages, or other, will significantly impair the Company’s ability to do business. Our business may be negatively impacted by inventory losses or obsolescence. Our businesses depend on providing current products in good condition from our inventory to the customer. Although we believe that we carry adequate insurance to protect ourselves from significant product losses, any uninsured loss of inventory, damages to inventory, or theft of inventory could have a significant impact on our profitability. Alternatively, in the event that we are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner, the unsold product may become obsolete and unsaleable and cause us to incur significant financial losses. We could incur substantial losses in the event there are sudden changes in demand for our products. A significant sudden increase in the demand for the Company’s products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases, while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory quantities on-hand. Additionally, the Company’s estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate. In any of these cases, the Company may have understated or overstated the write-down required for excess and obsolete inventory or otherwise incur additional financial losses. Our business is largely dependent upon seasonal weather variability. A major portion of our business is the distribution of heating, ventilating and air conditioning products. The sale of these products is heavily influenced by temperature extremes and any major shift in the variation of the climate may have a significant adverse impact on our business. The Company’s financial leverage may result in a negative impact upon our ability to do business. Our Company is financially leveraged. Our leverage may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to pay certain term loans, and further restrict our ability to operate and fulfill our financial obligations. The amount of our debt could have significant consequences. As an example, it could limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, or other needs. It requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduces our ability to use cash for other purposes. It has a negative impact on our flexibility in planning or reacting to business changes. It increases our vulnerability to any downturn in our business or to a significant rise in interest rates and may place us at a competitive disadvantage with our competitors who are not in such a leveraged position. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations depends upon our future performance. Our earnings vary based upon all the conditions described herein and, hence, our ability to pay our obligations is affected accordingly. 5 Table of Contents We may be unable to renew our credit line at the expiration of its term or obtain alternate financing which would have a significant impact on the continuation of the operation of our business. Since our debt accrues interest at a floating rate, extended periods of high interest rates could affect the viability of our business. Our lender may call our loan due which would have a significant impact on our ability to do business Our Company was in violation of our lender’s loan covenants for the third and fourth quarters of 2007, for which our lender has given us waivers. Our lender has imposed a $35,000 fee for the waiver of the fourth quarter of 2007 covenants violation. If at any time our Company is in violation of our lender’s loan covenants in the future, the lender may waive this violation, increase our interest rate by up to 3.0% and impose additional fees upon us for the violation. The increase in the interest rate or a significant financial penalty would have a negative impact on the operation of our business. If our lender does not waive this violation and calls our loan due, it may be difficult to obtain alternate financing which would have a significant impact on the continuation of the operation of our business. Our Company’s business is dependent upon the creditworthiness of our contractor customers. Our Company would be significantly negatively impacted in the event our contractor customers are unable to pay their obligations to us. This may occur if the economy or housing market slows, unemployment rises, interest rates increase dramatically, a natural disaster occurs within our region, or an act of terror substantially stops our economy from operating for a significant period of time. If these contractors are unable to pay their accounts with us, the result would be that we would be unable to pay our lending institutions and vendors, substantially impacting our ability to operate. We could incur substantial losses for asbestos-based claims. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings for a potential material and adverse effect to us if we are held liable for substantial asbestos claims against a predecessor of one of our subsidiaries, indemnitors fail to honor their indemnification agreements and insurance policies are held not to cover these liabilities. Our ability to operate our Company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Although William Pagano, a Director and Chief Executive Officer, has entered into an employment agreement with us that expires in 2010, our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies will depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we are unable to extend the leases for our locations. We lease 20 locations with approximately 420,000 square feet for showrooms, counter sales and warehousing. We own no real estate. Our leases expire at various times between May 31, 2009 and April 30, 2018. Our business will be negatively impacted if we are unable to extend our existing leases at reasonable rates and we are unable to lease alternative space on acceptable terms. 6 Table of Contents Our Company’s election of Board of Directors and corporate actions requiring shareholder approval could be controlled by a group of existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, Michael Goldman, our Chairman, William Pagano, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, and Rita Folger, a more than 5% shareholder, had beneficial ownership of approximately 55% of the Company’s common stock and 0% of the Company’s convertible preferred stock. If voted as a group, Messrs. Goldman and Pagano and Mrs. Folger would have the power to elect all six members of the Board of Directors and control all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 