Item 1A. Risk Factors Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology Our business could suffer if we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological changes and product development in our industry. The market for our LMR products is characterized by ongoing technological development, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. The LMR industry is experiencing a transition from analog LMR products to digital LMR products. In addition, the APCO Project 25 standard is being increasingly adopted. We depend on the success of our LMR product line We currently depend on our LMR products as our sole source of sales. A decline in the price of and/or demand for LMR products, as a result of competition, technological change, the introduction of new products by us or others or a failure to manage product transitions successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future success will largely depend on the successful introduction and sale of new analog and digital LMR products. Even if we successfully develop these products, we cannot guarantee that they will achieve market acceptance. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry We face intense competition from other LMR manufacturers, and the failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our market share, financial condition and results of operations. The largest producer of LMR products in the world currently is estimated to have well in excess of half the market for LMR products. This producer is also the world’s largest producer of P-25 products. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Some also have established reputations for success in developing and producing LMR products. These advantages may allow them: · to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements which may render our products obsolete or less marketable; · to engage in more extensive research and development; · to undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns; · to be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities; · to adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · to make more attractive offers to potential employees, strategic partners and advertisers. Many of our competitors have established extensive networks of sales locations and multiple distribution channels, and thus enjoy a competitive advantage over us in these areas as well. We may not be able to compete successfully and competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in the demand for P-25 products could benefit competitors who are better financed and have inventories on-hand that will meet such demand. P-25 products have been brought to the market by an increasing number of our competitors. Our first P-25 portable radio was brought to market in 2003. Bringing such products to market and achieving a significant market penetration for these products will continue to require time and substantial expenditures of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, fully functional product enhancements or new products that respond to these and other technological advances, or that our new products will be accepted by customers. An inability to successfully develop and/or market products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6 We face a number of risks related to the recent financial crisis The ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, extreme volatility in credit and equity markets and rapid deterioration of the U.S. economy. This financial crisis could impact our business, liquidity and financial condition in a number of ways, including: · Potential Deferment or Reduction of Purchases by Customers: Significant budget deficits and limited appropriations confronting our federal, state and local government customers may cause them to defer or reduce purchases of our products. Furthermore, uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause customers to defer purchases of our products in response to tighter credit and decreased cash availability Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations. · Customers’ Inability to Obtain Financing to Fund their Operations: Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations. Insolvencies of our customers would adversely impact our business and financial condition. Accordingly, there are increased risks of excess and obsolete inventories, reduced cash collections from customers, increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. · Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Third-Party Dealers and Distributors: We make sales to certain of our customers through third-party dealers and distributors. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvencies of these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition these end customers to purchase our products from other third parties, or from us directly, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. · Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers and Contract Manufacturers: Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on the ability of our contract manufacturers to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Equally, if certain contract manufacturers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption of available product, which could adversely impact our operating results and f inancial condition. In addition, credit constraints at either key suppliers or contract manufacturers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. · Limited Access by Us to Credit and Capital: Although we do not anticipate needing additional capital in the near term, the financial crisis may limit our access to credit and impair our ability to raise capital, if needed, on acceptable terms or at all. The availability of our credit facility is conditioned upon our being in compliance with certain covenants We have outstanding borrowings of $1.5 million under our credit facility with SVB. The loan and security agreement governing the credit facility contains certain financial maintenance and restrictive covenants. For instance, we are required to maintain at all times, tested on the last day of each month: (1) a ratio of “quick assets to current liabilities” minus “deferred revenue” (all as defined in the loan and security agreement) of at least 1.75:1.00 and (2) “tangible net worth” (as defined in the loan and security agreement) of at least $24 million increasing by (i) 50% of quarterly net profits and (ii) 75% of net proceeds derived from issuances of equity and issuances of subordinated debt. Failure to comply with any of these covenants would constitute an event of default that would permit SVB to accelerate repayment of the outstanding borrowings at the time of occurrence, which could have a mate rial adverse effect on our financial condition. We are currently in compliance with all of these covenants. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future or, in the event we fail to do so, that we will be able to either obtain a waiver from SVB or refinance the credit facility in a timely manner and on acceptable terms or at all. 7 We depend heavily on sales to government agencies A significant portion of our sales are derived from sales to federal, state, and local government agencies. Sales to government agencies present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions due to appropriation and spending patterns, changes in government personnel, political factors and the government’s reservation of the right to cancel contracts for its convenience. The bidding cycle for a request for proposal, or RFP, and contract award stage can take months before a contract is awarded and the related government funding process can prolong the bidding cycle as well. We expect that sales to government agencies will increasingly be subject to competitive bidding requirements. This intensified competition can be expected to result in lower prices, longer sales cycles and lower margins. Further, changes in governmental budget priorities could result in decreased opportunities for us with these agencies. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and on a limited number of suppliers of components to produce our products We contract with manufacturers to produce our products and our dependence on a limited number of contract manufacturers exposes us to certain risks, including shortages of manufacturing capacity, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, production yield and costs. If any of our manufacturers terminate production or cannot meet our production requirements, we may have to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. The lead-time required to qualify a new manufacturer could range from approximately two to six months. Despite efforts to do so, we may not be able to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a timely and cost effective manner and these new manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate quantities of our products from our current or alternative contract man ufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on limited and sole source suppliers of components involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products. The lead-time required for orders of some of our components is as much as six months. In addition, the lead-time required to qualify new suppliers for our components is as much as six months. If we are unable to accurately predict our component needs, or if our component supply is disrupted, we may miss market opportunities by not being able to meet the demand for our products. This may damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend heavily on sales to the U.S. Government We are subject to risks associated with our reliance on sales to the U.S. Government. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 42% of our LMR sales were to agencies and departments of the federal government. These sales were primarily to the USFS and the DOI. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this government business. Our ability to maintain our government business will depend on many factors outside of our control, including competitive factors, changes in government personnel making contract decisions, spending limits, and political factors. The loss of sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances If we incur future operating losses, we may be required to offset some or all of our deferred tax assets with a valuation allowance, resulting in an additional tax expense. The change in the valuation may have a material impact on future results. If we do not achieve sufficient federal taxable income in future years to utilize all or some of our net operating loss carry forwards, they will expire. Retention of our executive officers and key personnel is critical to our business Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and our Chief Technology Officer, as well as other key executives and employees. We do not have employment agreements with these individuals, and we cannot be sure that we will retain their services. We carry key-man life insurance of $5 million on the life of our President and Chief Executive Officer. Notwithstanding such life insurance, the loss of services from any of our executive officers or these other key 8 employees due to any reason whatsoever could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified operations, development and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain necessary personnel. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manage our growth Acquisitions and other business transactions may disrupt or otherwise have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will complete any asset purchases or other business transactions or that any such transactions which are completed will prove favorable to our business. We intend to seek stockholder approval for any such transactions only when so required by applicable law or regulation. We hope to grow rapidly, and the failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Our business plan contemplates, among other things, continued development of our LMR product lines through internal development and growth in our customer base. This growth and continued development, if it materializes, could significantly challenge our management, employees, operations and financial capabilities. In the event of this expansion, we have to continue to implement and improve our operating systems and to expand, train, and manage our employee base. If we are unable to manage and integrate our expanding operations effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to government regulation Failure to comply with government regulations applicable to our business could result in penalties. Our LMR products are regulated by the FCC. As a public company we are subject to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal regulations governing our business and we believe that we have obtained all licenses necessary for the operation of our business. Failure to comply with these requirements and regulations or to respond to changes in these requirements and regulations could result in penalties on us such as fines, restrictions on operations or a temporary or permanent closure of our facility. These penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause a decline of our stock price. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by existing or new regulatory require ments or interpretations. We engage in business with manufacturers located in other countries We engage in business with manufacturers located in other countries. We place a substantial amount of emphasis on manufacturing in other countries. Approximately 60% of our material, subassembly and product procurements in 2008 were sourced internationally. Accordingly, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating solely in the United States. These include the risks associated with the political, economic and legal environments, among others. Our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the political and social conditions in foreign countries in which we maintain sourcing relationships, and changes in government policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflation measures and method of taxation. The governments of these countries may implement economic reform policies at any time. It is possible that changes in leadership could lead to changes in economic policy. Additionally, the laws and regulations applicable to us may be subject to change, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We carry substantial quantities of inventory We carry a significant amount of inventory to service customer requirements in a timely manner. If we are unable to sell this inventory over a commercially reasonable time, we may be required to take inventory markdowns in the future, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins. In addition, it is critical to our success that we accurately predict trends in customer demand, including seasonal fluctuations, in the future and do not overstock unpopular products or fail to sufficiently stock popular products. Both scenarios could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 We rely on a combination of contract, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property rights We own no United States patents. We hold several trademarks related to the “RELM” and “BK Radio” names and certain product names. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors and customers, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also rely on trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we believe that trademark protection, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements should prevent another party from manufacturing and selling competing products under one or more of our trademarks or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be successful. It may also be particularly difficult to protect our products and intellectual property under the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold. Our fluctuating quarterly operating results could cause volatility in our stock price Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, resulting in volatility for the market price for our common stock. Other factors affecting the volatility of our stock price include: · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · the announcement or introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · changes in earnings estimates by us or our competitors or by securities analysts; · additions or departures of our key personnel; and · sales of our common stock. Acts of war or terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, employees, suppliers, manufacturers, and customers that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The economic uncertainty stemming from terrorist attacks may continue. While we cannot predict what impact a prolonged war on terrorism will have on the United States economy, we plan to prudently manage expenses, while continuing to invest in our business and make capital expenditures when they will increase productivity, profitably, or sales. Any successful infringement claim against us could have an adverse affect on our financial condition Although we believe our products and technology do not infringe on any proprietary rights of others, as the number of competing products available in the market increases and the functions of those products further overlap, infringement claims may increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation or might require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any successful infringement claim could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, agreements regarding the purchase or sale of certain assets and businesses could require us to indemnify the purchasers or sellers of such assets or businesses for any damages they may suffer if third party claims give rise to losses. Any such claims could require us to pay substantial damages, whic h could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Nevada law may discourage a potential takeover Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and Nevada law could discourage or prevent potential acquisitions of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Preferred stock could be issued, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, which could be unfavorable to our stockholders. 10 There is no assurance that we will pay future cash dividends on our common stock Although we paid a special cash dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock in October 2007, we have no intention of paying future cash dividends on our common stock. This special cash dividend was the first cash dividend we have ever paid on our common stock. The declaration and payment of future cash dividends, if any, on our common stock is subject to our Board of Directors’ discretion and final determination based upon its consideration of our operating results, financial condition and anticipated capital requirements, as well as such other factors it may deem relevant. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends on our common stock. We may not be able to maintain our American Stock Exchange listing Our common stock has been listed on the American Stock Exchange since October 14, 2005. There is no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the American Stock Exchange’s continued listing standards, which include, among others, minimum stockholders’ equity, market capitalization, pre-tax income and per share sales price. If our common stock is de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, we would be forced to list our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board or some other quotation medium, depending on our ability to meet the specific requirements of those quotation systems. Selling our common stock would be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold and transactions could be delayed. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. If this happens, we will have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets to raise a ny additional necessary capital. Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price and impair our ability to raise equity capital Approximately 1.8 million of our shares of outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008 are owned by certain of our executive officers and directors and their affiliates and other persons holding restricted shares, and may be resold publicly at any time subject to the volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933. Approximately 87% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008 are freely tradable without restriction. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or even the potential for such sales, could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 