ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability; we may need additional capital in the future to fund our businesses, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. We have experienced operating losses in the past, and we expect to continue to incur additional operating losses in the future until such time as we achieve substantially higher sales volume. We incurred pre-tax losses from operations of $13.2 million and $11.7 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are out of our control, including the manufacturing costs for our products and the demand for our products. In addition, we have not reported positive gross margins on the sale of our ChargeSource® products during either fiscal 2009 or 2008. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources, including our existing credit facility (see Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report), will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements as our business is currently conducted for at least the next 12 months. As the Company executes on its current strategy, however, it may require further debt and/or equity capital to fund its working capital needs. In particular, we have experienced, and anticipate that we may experience a negative operating cash flow in the future. We may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings if such financings become available on acceptable terms or we may seek working capital financing through the extension of additional credit. The current U.S. capital markets are illiquid and the availability of funds is sparse. We cannot be certain that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will have to reduce our costs for our ChargeSource® products and achieve higher sales volumes for our products to become profitable, and if we fail to achieve cost reductions and higher sales volumes for our products, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. We experienced negative gross margins in fiscal 2009 and 2008. We do not expect to experience positive gross profit on sales of our products until we reduce our cost of revenue. In order to reduce our cost of revenue, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, and the price we pay to these manufacturers for the finished product. Additionally, even if we are able to reduce our cost of revenue, our current level of sales is insufficient to absorb our operating expenses. Our ability to drive increased sales is dependent upon, among others, the following factors: • Successful development and release for manufacture of certain AC and AC/DC standalone power adapter products designed to address the requirements of our retail and OEM channels; • Securing additional OEM partners; and • Market and customer acceptance of our new products expected to be available by the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2010. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to increase sales or reduce our cost of revenue. If we fail to reduce our cost of revenue or achieve higher sales volumes for our ChargeSource® products, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient product inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. To ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we commit to purchase our products based on forecasts provided by customers in advance of receiving purchase orders from them. Most of our customers are distributors who in turn sell our products to resellers and/or end users, which causes us to have limited visibility into ultimate product demand, making forecasting more difficult. As a result, we have historically and expect that in the future we will continue to incur inventory costs in advance of anticipated revenue. Because 7 Table of Contents demand for our products may not materialize as we expect, purchasing based on forecasts subjects us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased obsolescence and may increase our costs. A significant increase in the demand for our products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory quantities on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological development and rapid product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. In the future, if our inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our cost of revenue at the time of such determination. Therefore, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. If we overestimate customer demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. In fiscal 2009, we incurred $1.5 million of inventory reserve and scrap costs recorded primarily in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Similarly, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient product inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships, which also could harm our business. Our business and operational results are subject to the seasonal demand fluctuations of the consumer product and retail industries, as well as general economic and retail uncertainty. The seasonality of the consumer product and retail industries will affect our business. For example, our OEM and retail distribution partners typically order the great majority of the products they expect to sell during the holiday season during the first three calendar quarters. Accordingly, we expect that our sales may be concentrated during the first three calendar quarters and lower in the fourth calendar quarter. Additionally, our revenues depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have recently deteriorated due to current worldwide economic weaknesses. This economic downturn and decrease in consumer spending may adversely affect our revenues, the sell through ability of our customers, or otherwise negatively impact our business strategy. If legislative actions recently taken to enhance the economy by the government of the United States of America fail, or if the current economic situation deteriorates further, our business could be negatively impacted. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, any of which would reduce our sales and adversely affect our operating results. Since substantially all of our customers purchase our products from us on a purchase order basis, they may cancel, change, or delay product purchase commitments with little notice to us. As a result, we are not always able to forecast with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period and sometimes we may increase our inventory, working capital, and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced, or canceled. The following factors, among others, affect our ability to forecast accurately our sales and production capacity: • Changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; and • Long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete anticipated customer orders. Delayed, reduced or canceled purchase orders also may result in our inability to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of those orders, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials and write-offs of obsolete inventory. Failure to adjust our operations in response to changing market conditions or failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results. Consumer demand for our ChargeSource® mobile power products has been subject to fluctuations as a result of our choices of distribution partners, market acceptance of our products, the timing and size of customer orders, and consumer demand for rechargeable mobile electronic devices. Accordingly, it has been difficult for us to forecast the demand for these products. We also are limited in our ability to quickly adapt our cost structures to 8 Table of Contents changing market conditions because a significant portion of our sales and marketing, design and other engineering, and supply chain costs are fixed. If customer demand for our products declines or if we otherwise fail to accurately forecast reduced customer demand, we will likely experience excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if market conditions improve, our inventory may not be adequate to fill increased customer demand. As a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. The products we make are complex and have short life cycles. If we are unable to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new products, some of our products may become obsolete and our operating results could suffer. The consumer electronics industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Our mobile power products have short life cycles, and may become obsolete over relatively short periods of time. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce, and deliver on a timely basis and in sufficient quantity new products, components, and enhancements. The success of any new product offering will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • Properly identify customer needs and technological trends; • Timely develop new technologies and applications; • Price our products and services competitively; • Timely manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volume, and • Differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Development of new products requires high levels of innovation from both our engineers and our component suppliers. Development of a new product often requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the product. If we dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of products that do not achieve broad market acceptance, our operating results may suffer. Our operating results may also be adversely affected due to the timing of product introductions by competitors, especially if a competitor introduces a new product before our own comparable product is ready to be introduced. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, and our profitability will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The consumer electronics industry in which we sell our products is highly competitive. We compete on many levels, including the timing of development and introduction of new products, technology, price, quality, customer service, and support. Our competitors range from some of the industries’ largest corporations to relatively small and highly specialized firms. Many of our competitors possess advantages over us, including greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger and more established customer and supplier relationships. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs. If we do not have the resources or expertise necessary to compete or to match our competitors or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive disadvantages, we could lose customers and revenue. The average selling prices of our products will likely decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Our products will likely experience a reduction in their average selling prices over their respective sales cycles and price pressures could negatively affect our operating results. Further, as we introduce new or next-generation products, sales prices of legacy products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product costs. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs. In order to do so, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, and the price we pay to these manufacturers for the finished product. In addition, inventory levels must be 9 Table of Contents tightly managed. If we are unable to reduce the overall production cost of legacy products as new products are introduced, our average gross margins will likely decline and adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of customers and is dependent upon our relationships with them and upon their performance. Any loss of, reduction, cancellation, or delay in purchases by these customers would negatively impact our revenue, business, prospects, and operating results. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Our two key customers for fiscal 2009 accounted for $12.0 million, or 89 percent of total revenue. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a large percentage of our revenue in the future. In particular, we believe that Targus will represent a large percentage of our revenue in the future as a result of the Targus Agreement under which our ChargeSource® products are expected to be exclusively distributed on a retail basis by Targus beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Our success will depend in part on Targus’ ability and willingness to effectively and widely distribute our products on an exclusive basis. Any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more of our key customers, or any inability of one or more of our key customers to take delivery of ordered products, would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Any loss of, reduction, cancellation, or delay in purchases by these customers would negatively impact our revenue, business, prospects, and operating results unless we are able to develop other customers who purchase products at comparable levels. Developing alternative customers could be time-consuming, disruptive, and costly to our business. We may experience quality or safety defects in our products that could cause us to institute product recalls, require us to provide replacement products and harm our reputation. In the course of conducting our business, we experience and attempt to address various quality and safety issues with our products, as our products must meet exacting technical and performance standards. Often product defects are identified during our design, development, and manufacturing processes, which we are able to correct in a timely manner. Sometimes, defects are identified after introduction and shipment of products. If we are unable to fix defects in a timely manner or adequately address quality control issues, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, our reputation may suffer and we may lose customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, customer relationships, reputation, and prospects. Economic, political, and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently outsource the manufacture of our ChargeSource® products to contract manufacturers in China. Additionally, international revenue accounted for approximately 97 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2009. Accordingly, our business is subject to worldwide economic and market conditions and risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, weaknesses in the economic conditions in particular countries or regions, the stability of international monetary conditions, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest and disruptions, and delays in shipments. We do business with our foreign supply base in U.S. dollars. Our costs increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar. Also, we cannot be sure that our international supply base will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our costs will become more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. These factors could adversely affect our ability to outsource our manufacturing and supply needs to foreign countries as well as our sales of products and services in international markets. Disruptions in our relationships with our suppliers or in our suppliers’ operations could result in shortages of necessary components and adversely affect our operations. We currently procure, and expect to continue to procure, certain components from single source manufacturers who provide unique component designs or who meet certain quality and performance requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase customized components from single sources in order to take advantage of 10 Table of Contents volume pricing discounts. In fiscal 2009, one of the contract manufacturers for our ChargeSource® products provided $10.5 million, or 87 percent of product costs included in cost of revenue. The performance of our suppliers is largely outside of our control and involves various risks, including risks associated with limited control over price, timely delivery, and quality. In the past, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, shortages of important single source components. Our suppliers may fail to timely deliver components or provide components of sufficient quality. If this occurs, we may need to adjust both product designs and production schedules, which could result in delays in the production and delivery of products to our customers. These delays or defects could harm our reputation, impair our customer relationships, and adversely affect our operations. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation, settlement or licensing costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. These intellectual property infringement claims, whether we ultimately are found to be infringing any third party’s intellectual property rights or not, are time-consuming, costly to defend, and divert resources and management attention away from our operations. In this regard we are currently involved in litigation with iGo, Inc. as iGo has sued us alleging that iGo patents are infringed by the mechanical keying arrangement between power adaptors and programming kits used by us in our mobile power products sold to distributors and to a computer manufacturer. We have denied liability and countersued alleging that iGo has breached a settlement agreement entered into with us in 2003 and that iGo is liable for infringement of at least one of our patents. For more information regarding this matter, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Infringement claims by third parties also could subject us to significant damage awards or fines or require us to pay large amounts to settle such claims. Additionally, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on acceptable terms or substitute similar technology from other sources, we could be prevented from or restricted in selling our products containing, or manufactured with, the infringed technology. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to spend significant resources enforcing these rights or otherwise suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and in certain other countries, and upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and partners to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology. We are required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights; however these rights might not necessarily provide us with a sufficient competitive advantage. Our future and pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all. Others may independently develop similar proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to and disclose our proprietary information and technology, and our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or others, whether in the United States or in foreign countries. Our employees, customers, or partners also could breach our confidentiality agreements, for which we may not have an adequate remedy available. We also may not be able to timely detect the infringement of our intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Whether or not we are successful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights, litigation is time-consuming and costly, diverts resources and management attention away from our operations, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. If we suffer the loss of our corporate offices or the loss of one of our contract manufacturer’s facilities due to catastrophe, our operations would be adversely affected. We have one corporate office, which is located in Lake Forest, California. Although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for all possible catastrophes, including 11 Table of Contents interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Any significant disruption in our access to the facility, whether due to fire, natural disaster, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, the manufacturing of our ChargeSource® products is performed by contract manufacturers located in China. If any significant disruption occurs in the facilities in China, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We depend upon the services of key personnel, and may not be able to attract and retain additional key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, and executive personnel. If for any reason our key personnel left our employ and we failed to replace a sufficient number of these personnel, we might not be able to maintain or expand our business. Competition for such highly skilled personnel in the consumer electronics industry is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire or re-hire sufficiently qualified personnel in adequate numbers to meet the demand for our products and services. If we are unable to identify, hire, and integrate these skilled personnel in a timely or cost-efficient manner, our operating results could suffer. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, if our operating results decline or are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including: • The size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • The degree and rate of growth in the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • Limitations in our ability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • Our ability to introduce, and the timing of our introductions of, new or enhanced products; • Product failures and recalls, product quality control problems and associated in-field service support costs; • Warranty expenses; • Availability and cost of components, and • Changes in average sales prices. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed due to sales, engineering, and supply chain overhead. If we experience a decline in revenue, we may be unable to reduce our fixed costs quickly enough to compensate for the decline, which would magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If our operating results decline or are below expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock may decline significantly. Our stock price has been and will likely remain highly volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry stock price fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price of our stock has exhibited significant price fluctuations, which makes our stock unsuitable for many investors. Our stock price may also be affected by the following factors: • Our quarterly operating results; • Changes in the consumer electronics industries; • Changes in the economic outlook of the particular markets in which we sell our products and services; 12 Table of Contents • The gain or loss of significant customers; • Reductions in demand or expectations of future demand by our customers; • Changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors, or our customers; • The timing and announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us, and • Other events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. All of these factors may contribute to the volatility of our stock price. The trading volume of our common stock often has been limited and may depress the price for our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price, even if temporary, could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The trading volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be limited. Limited trading volume could depress the price for our common stock because fewer analysts may provide coverage for our stock and because investors might be unwilling to pay a higher market price for a stock that is less liquid. This limited trading volume, along with market and industry stock price fluctuations and other factors affecting our operations, may depress the price for our common stock or result in greater volatility in the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 