ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our operations and business results. Our management and our independent registered public accounting firm have questioned our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our recurring losses from operations, declining working capital and uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise additional funds. Our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the next twelve months and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from our inability to continue as a going concern. In order for us to continue operations beyond the next twelve months and be able to discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business, we must increase sales; reduce operating expenses; and potentially raise additional funds, through either debt and/or equity financing to meet our working capital needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase sales, reduce expenses, or obtain additional funds through either debt or equity financing transactions or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to increase sales, reduce expenses, or raise additional capital through debt or equity financings, we may be unable to continue to fund our operations, develop our products or realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. These uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets, and might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. The accompanying financial statements do not contain any adjustments for this uncertainty. We will have to reduce our costs for products and achieve higher sales volumes for our business to become profitable, and if we fail to do so, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. We experienced negative gross profit margins in the second and fourth quarter and the full fiscal year of fiscal 2012. We operate in a very competitive marketplace where reducing product costs to meet competitive pressures is a constant. If we are not able to charge high enough prices for our products to cover the costs of producing those products, we may continue to experience negative gross margins in the future. In order to reduce our cost of revenue, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for the components used in our products along with the price we pay our contract manufacturers for the finished products they provide to us. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, if we are not able to reduce our cost of revenue and increase our gross profit margins accordingly, our current level of sales is insufficient to absorb our operating expenses. Our ability to drive increased sales is dependent upon many factors including the following: • Successful ChargeSource® sales volumes from our direct-to-consumer sales in fiscal 2013 through our website www.chargesource.com; • Increasing sales to our OEM partner Lenovo. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to increase sales or reduce our cost of revenue. If we fail to reduce our cost of revenue or achieve higher sales volumes, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. Our expansion into retail internet sales may not achieve the sales volumes we anticipate. We have limited experience in our newest market segment, www.chargesource.com, and we may not attract new customers. Our ChargeSource® product offerings may subject us to high return rates if customers are dissatisfied with these products. In addition, we may not be successful enough in this new segment to recoup our investments in marketing and branding. If any of this were to occur, we may not be successful in generating additional revenue from our ChargeSource® products. We experienced a recall of one our power adapters in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, and in the future we may experience additional quality or safety defects in our products that could cause us to institute additional product recalls or require us to provide replacement products. On April 30, 2010, the CPSC announced the recall of approximately 500,000 units of our Bronx 90-watt universal AC power adapter sold to our distributer, Targus. These units were sold from June 2009 through March 2010. Of the units affected by the Recall, we originally estimated that approximately 400,000 units were in the hands of consumers, while the remaining 100,000 were in the distribution channel. Since the announcement of the Recall, less than 5,000 consumer units have been returned and approximately 155,000 units have been returned from the distribution channel. During fiscal 2012 and 2011, we accrued an additional $0.2 million and $0.3 million charge to cost of revenue, respectively. We believe that we have accrued for and paid substantially all of our material financial obligations with respect to the Recall. Included in our accounts payable at January 31, 2012 is $1.1 million payable to the contract manufacturer of the Bronx product subject to the Recall. We are seeking remuneration from the contract manufacturer. On April 26, 2011, the contract manufacturer sued us for payment as discussed in Item 3 of this report. The outcome of this matter is neither determinable nor estimable and for this reason, we have not adjusted the accounts payable balance. If we prevail in our dispute with the contract manufacturer, we will record a reduction in our accounts payable and potentially reduce the costs of the Recall that have been incurred to date. The Recall resulted in material costs and expenses and any future recalls could materially and adversely affect our brand image, cause a decline in our sales and profitability, and reduce or deplete our financial resources. There is the risk that key customers may cancel orders, change order quantities or delay order delivery dates as a result of the Recall or any future product recalls. The Recall and any future product recalls could require substantial administrative resources which may detract management’s attention from our core business strategies. In addition, the Recall and any future product recalls may result in disputes with suppliers and customers or lead to adverse proceedings such as arbitration or litigation which can be costly and expensive. In the course of conducting our business, we experience and attempt to address various quality and safety issues with our products, as our products must meet exacting technical and performance standards. Often product defects are identified during our design, development, and manufacturing processes, which we are able to correct in a timely manner. Sometimes, defects are identified after introduction and shipment of products. If we are unable to fix defects in a timely manner or adequately address quality control issues, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, our reputation may suffer and we may lose customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, customer relationships, reputation, and prospects. 8 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few customers and we are dependent upon our relationships with them and upon their performance. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from a very limited number of customers. Our three key customers for fiscal 2012 accounted for $7.9 million, or nearly all of our total revenue. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a large percentage of our revenue in the future. As previously discussed Targus, which accounted for 67 percent of our fiscal 2011 revenue, sent written notification to us on January 25, 2011 of non-renewal of the Targus Agreement. At this time, we expect no future sales to Targus. Any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more of our key customers, or any refusal or inability of one or more of our key customers to take delivery of ordered products, would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any loss of, reduction, cancellation, or delay in purchases by our key customers would negatively impact our revenue, business, prospects, and operating results unless we are able to develop other customers who purchase products at comparable levels. While we have launched our direct-to consumer sales through our website www.chargesource.com, there is no guarantee that sales generated from this channel will provide sales volumes equal to or greater than those created by our former relationship with Targus. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient product inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. To ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we commit to purchase the components and/or finished products based on forecasts provided by customers in advance of receiving purchase orders from them. As a result, we expect to continue to incur inventory costs in advance of anticipated revenue. Because demand for our products may not materialize as we expect, purchasing based on forecasts subjects us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased obsolescence and may increase our costs. For example, during the three months ended July 31, 2011 we accrued a charge of $380,000 relating to a settlement reached with a supplier relating to purchase commitments made to support the Targus business. A significant increase in the demand for our products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory quantities on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological development and rapid product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. In the future, if our inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our cost of revenue at the time of such determination. Therefore, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. If we overestimate customer demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. Similarly, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient product inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships, which also could harm our business. Our business and operational results are subject to the seasonal demand fluctuations of the consumer product and retail industries, as well as general economic and retail uncertainty. The seasonality of the consumer product and retail industries will affect our business. For example, our OEM and retail distribution partners typically order the majority of the products they expect to sell during the holiday season during the first three calendar quarters. Accordingly, we expect that our sales may be concentrated during the first three calendar quarters and be lower in the fourth calendar quarter. Additionally, our revenues depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have been weak due to the continuing economic recession and continuing economic uncertainty. Continued economic uncertainty and weak consumer spending and consumer confidence may adversely affect our revenues, the sell through ability of our customers, or otherwise negatively impact our business strategy. If legislative actions taken to enhance the economy fail, or if the current economic situation deteriorates further, our business could be negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents Recent changes in our management may lead to instability and may negatively affect our business. During April 2011, our President and Chief Executive Officer was terminated and our Chief Financial Officer resigned. Our board of directors appointed Fredrik Torstensson to serve as interim President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he held from April 2011 until August 2011, and appointed Alisha K. Charlton, our Vice President Controller & Corporate Secretary, as Chief Accounting Officer. During August 2011, Mr. Torstensson was terminated and Thomas W. Lanni, our Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer and also elected as a Director. Additionally, the board of directors experienced significant turnover during fiscal 2011 and the first quarter of fiscal 2012. We cannot be certain that the changes in management and the board of directors will not negatively affect our business in the future or that additional changes in management and in the composition of our board of directors will not occur. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, any of which would reduce our sales and adversely affect our operating results. Historically, most of our customers purchase our products from us on a purchase order basis, and they may cancel, change, or delay product purchase commitments with little notice to us. As a result, we are not always able to forecast with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period and sometimes we may increase our inventory, working capital, and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced, or canceled. The following factors, among others, affect our ability to forecast accurately our sales and production capacity: • Changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; and • Electronic component long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete actual/anticipated customer orders. Delayed, reduced or canceled purchase orders also may result in our inability to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of those orders, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials and write-offs of obsolete inventory. Failure to adjust our operations in response to changing market conditions or failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results. Consumer demand for our mobile power products has been subject to fluctuations as a result of our choices of distribution partners, market acceptance of our products, the timing and size of customer orders, and consumer demand for rechargeable mobile electronic devices. Accordingly, it has been difficult for us to forecast the demand for these products. We also are limited in our ability to quickly adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions because a significant portion of our design and other engineering and supply chain costs are fixed. If customer demand for our products declines or if we otherwise fail to accurately forecast reduced customer demand, we will likely experience excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if market conditions improve, our inventory may not be adequate to fill increased customer demand. As a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. The products we make are complex and have short life cycles and if we are unable to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new products, some of our products may become obsolete. The consumer electronics industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, changing consumer preferences, and evolving industry standards. Our mobile power products have short life cycles, and may become obsolete over relatively short periods of time. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce, and deliver on a timely basis and in sufficient quantity new products, components, and enhancements. The success of any new product offering will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • Properly identify customer needs and technological trends; • Timely develop new technologies and applications; • Price our products and services competitively; 10 Table of Contents • Timely manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volume to meet consumer demand; and • Differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Development of new products requires high levels of innovation from both our engineers and our component suppliers. Development of a new product often requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the product. If we dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of products that do not achieve broad market acceptance, our operating results may suffer. Our operating results may also be adversely affected due to the timing of product introductions by competitors, especially if a competitor introduces a new product before our own comparable product is ready to be introduced. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, and our profitability will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The consumer electronics industry in which we sell our products is highly competitive. We compete on many levels, including the timing of development and introduction of new products, technology, price, quality, customer service, and support. Our competitors range from some of the industries’ largest corporations to relatively small and highly specialized firms. Many of our competitors possess advantages over us, including greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition, more established distribution networks, entrenched relationships with OEMs and greater experience in launching, marketing, distributing and selling products. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs. If we do not have the resources or expertise necessary to compete or to match our competitors or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive disadvantages, we could lose customers and revenue. The average selling prices of our products will likely decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Our products will likely experience a reduction in their average selling prices over their respective sales cycles and price pressures could negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, as we introduce new or next-generation products, sales prices of legacy products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product costs. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs. In order to do so, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, and the price we pay to these manufacturers for the finished product. In addition, inventory levels must be tightly managed. If we are unable to reduce the overall production cost of legacy products as new products are introduced, our average gross margins will likely decline and adversely affect our operating results. Economic, political, and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently outsource the manufacture of our products to contract manufacturers located in China and the United States. Additionally, international revenue accounted for approximately 70 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2012. Accordingly, our business is subject to worldwide economic and market conditions and risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, weaknesses in the economic conditions in particular countries or regions, the instability of international monetary conditions, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest and disruptions, and delays in shipments. Essentially, we currently do all business with our foreign supply base in U.S. dollars. Our costs increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar. Also, we cannot be sure that our international supply base will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our costs will become more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. These factors could adversely affect our ability to outsource our manufacturing and supply needs to foreign countries as well as our sales of products and services in international markets. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers. We currently procure, and expect to continue to procure, certain components from single source manufacturers who provide unique component designs or who meet certain quality and performance requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase customized components from single sources in order to take advantage of 11 Table of Contents volume pricing discounts. In fiscal 2012, one contract manufacturer for our products provided $4.5 million or 94 percent of the product costs included in cost of revenue and in fiscal 2011, two of the contract manufacturers for our products provided a combined $16.9 million or 81 percent of the product costs included in cost of revenue. The performance of our contract manufacturers and suppliers is largely outside of our control and involves various risks, including risks associated with limited control over price, procurement of raw materials, timely delivery, and quality. In the past we have experienced, and may continue to experience, shortages of products purchased from single sources or a limited number of suppliers. Our contract manufacturers and suppliers may fail to timely deliver products or fail to provide products of sufficient quality or that fail to meet required specifications. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, our contract manufacturer failed to timely procure the raw materials needed to build our products and we had a six week production cessation. We cannot be sure that we will not experience a similar disruption in our manufacturing process in the future. We believe that the Recall was a direct result of our contract manufacturer failing to meet our technical specifications. If our relationship with our contract manufacturers and suppliers is disrupted in any way, we may lose sales, or we may be required to adjust both product designs and/or production schedules or develop suitable alternative contract manufacturers and suppliers, which could result in delays in the production and delivery of products to our customers. Any such delays, disruptions or quality problems could adversely impact our ability to sell our products, harm our reputation, impair our customer relationships, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Included in our accounts payable at January 31, 2012 is $1.1 million payable to the contract manufacturer of the Bronx product subject to the Recall. We are seeking remuneration from the contract manufacturer. On April 26, 2011, the contract manufacturer sued us for payment as discussed in Item 3 of this report. The outcome of this matter is neither determinable nor estimable and for this reason, we have not adjusted the accounts payable balance. If we prevail, we will record a reduction in our accounts payable and potentially reduce the costs of the Recall that have been incurred to date. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation, settlement or licensing costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. These intellectual property infringement claims, whether we ultimately are found to be infringing any third party’s intellectual property rights or not, are time-consuming, costly to defend, and divert resources and management attention away from our operations. We have previously been subject to litigation alleging that our products infringed on a third party’s intellectual property. We denied liability and countersued and on May 26, 2009, at the request of the parties, the court dismissed the entire case, without prejudice, with each party to bear its own costs and attorneys’ fees. During fiscal 2012 we entered into a Settlement and Amended Cross-License Agreement (the “Agreement”) with this third party. The Agreement fully settles the previous litigation that was dismissed without prejudice. Separately, on September 1, 2011, ACCO Brands USA LLC and its Kensington Computer Products Group division (collectively “Kensington”) filed a lawsuit against us alleging that five of our patents relating to power technology are invalid and/or not infringed by products made and/or sold by Kensington. On February 29, 2012 we denied these claims and filed a cross-complaint alleging claims of infringement on each of these five patents. The Court has required that the parties mediate the dispute by the end of July, 2012. This matter is ongoing and the outcome is not determinable. Infringement claims by third parties also could subject us to significant damage awards or fines or require us to pay large amounts to settle such claims. Additionally, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on acceptable terms or substitute similar technology from other sources, we could be prevented from or restricted in selling our products containing, or manufactured with, the infringed technology. 12 Table of Contents Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to spend significant resources enforcing these rights or otherwise suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and in certain other countries, and upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and partners to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology. We are required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights; however these rights might not necessarily provide us with a sufficient competitive advantage. Our future and pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all. Others may independently develop similar proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to and disclose our proprietary information and technology, and our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or others, whether in the United States or in foreign countries. Our employees, customers, or partners also could breach our confidentiality agreements, for which we may not have an adequate remedy available. We also may not be able to timely detect the infringement of our intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position. During fiscal 2012, we notified approximately 11 companies that we believe they are manufacturing and distributing products that infringe on one or more of our patents. One of the companies entered into a license agreement with us shortly after being notified of the infringement. We intend to aggressively protect our intellectual property and are vigorously pursuing all potential infringers. Litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Whether or not we are successful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights, litigation is time-consuming and costly, diverts resources and management attention away from our operations, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. If our products fail to comply with domestic and international government regulations, or if these regulations result in a barrier to our business, our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our products must comply with various domestic and international laws, regulations and standards, which are complicated and subject to interpretation. In the event that we are unable to comply with any such laws, regulations or standards, we may decide not to conduct business in certain markets. Particularly in international markets, we may experience difficulty in securing required licenses or permits on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are generally required to obtain both domestic and foreign regulatory and safety approvals and certifications for our products. Failure to comply with existing or evolving laws or regulations, including export and import restrictions and barriers, or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could negatively impact our revenue. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, if our operating results decline or are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including: • The size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • The degree and rate of growth in the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • Limitations in our ability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • Our ability to introduce, and the timing of our introductions of, new or enhanced products; • Product failures and recalls, product quality control problems and associated in-field service support costs; • Warranty expenses; • Availability and cost of components; • Changes in average sales prices, and • Normal market sales seasonality. 13 Table of Contents Due to these and other factors, our past results are not necessarily reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our cost of sales and operating expenses are relatively fixed including operations and supply chain overhead in support of our contract manufacturers; engineering and sales/administrative expense. If we experience a decline in revenue, we may be unable to reduce our fixed costs quickly enough to compensate for the decline, which would magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If our operating results decline or are below expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock may decline significantly. We cannot be certain of the availability of debt or equity financing. As of the date of this filing, we have no debt or financing arrangement with any party. In fiscal 2013, we may require additional capital from debt or equity financing to fund our operations. We cannot be certain that any financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot secure financing in the future, we may be forced to liquidate our assets or discontinue operations and our shareholders may lose all or a part of their investment in our common stock. We have concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of January 31, 2012 which could cause deficiencies in our financial reporting and investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as discussed in “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” in Item 9A of this report. Specifically, our management has concluded that due to a lack of accounting and information technology staff there is a lack of segregation of duties necessary for an appropriate system of internal controls. While we will continue to implement our internal controls over financial reporting, because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all material misstatements, errors or omissions. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more “significant deficiencies” (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. If we fail to implement adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. Moreover, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of common stock. Provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or deter other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by the board of directors, without the approval of our shareholders; • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; 14 Table of Contents • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and other proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; • the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain business combinations with interested stockholders; and • the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain changes to specific provisions of our Articles of Incorporation (including those provisions described above). Our stock price has been and will likely remain highly volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry stock price fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price of our stock has exhibited significant price fluctuations, which makes our stock unsuitable for many investors. Our stock price may also be affected by the following factors: • Our quarterly operating results; • Changes in the consumer electronics industries; • Changes in the economic outlook of the particular markets in which we sell our products and services; • The gain or loss of significant customers, including our ability to continue to conduct business with Lenovo; • Our ability to effectively generate direct to consumer sales through our website; • Reductions in demand or expectations of future demand by our customers; • Changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our competitors or our customers; • The timing and announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us, and • Other events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. All of these factors, as well as others not discussed above, may contribute to the volatility of our stock price. There is currently a limited trading market for our common stock, which may limit our stockholders' ability to sell shares of our common stock and may depress the price of our common stock. Our common stock was traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “CMRO” until November 11, 2010. Commencing on November 12, 2010 our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market and effective January 6, 2011 our common stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTC:BB. The average trading volume of our common stock has historically been very low and the average trading volume may decline further as a result of trading on the OTC:BB. The reduced trading volume may result in a depression of the price of our common stock as investors adjust their perception of the value of our shares based on their perceived ability to subsequently sell the shares. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define “penny stocks” as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If we do not fall 15 Table of Contents within any exemptions from the “penny stock” definition, we will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which regulations are commonly referred to as the “Penny Stock Rules.” The Penny Stock Rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. If our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules, we are unable to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the Forward Looking Statements sections of the Exchange Act. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for an exemption from the Penny Stock Rules, or that if an exemption currently exists, that we will continue to qualify for such exemption. In any event, we are subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 