ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks continue or newly occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would further suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely further decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our operations and business results. We have effectively suspended our traditional operations as of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2014. We are now primarily focused on potentially realizing value from our ongoing or future litigation as well as exploring opportunities to expand, protect, and monetize our patent portfolio, including through the potential sale or licensing of our patent portfolio. In the future, we may resume our traditional operations, if and when possible. Our ability to generate positive cash flow, if any, from these activities is speculative and subject to a number of uncertainties. If we do not improve our cash position in the near term, we may be forced to cease even our current, limited operations, in which event you may lose your entire investment in us. We have effectively suspended our traditional operations and are focused now primarily focused on potentially realizing value from our ongoing or future litigation as well as exploring opportunities to expand, protect, and monetize our patent portfolio, including through the potential sale or licensing of our patent portfolio. While we have little experience or track record in generating revenues from these non-traditional methods, we have executed two settlement agreements through fiscal 2014. There can be no guarantees that we will execute additional agreements in the future. 3 Our ability to generate revenue from ongoing or future litigation is subject to a number of significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, our ability to retain counsel on an alternative fee structure or otherwise fund the cost of litigation counsel, the validity of our claims, our ability to succeed on the merits of our claims, interpretation of applicable contracts and laws (which in many cases are complex and potentially subject to competing interpretations), our ability to sustain operations trough the final adjudication of our various litigation proceedings, and other uncertainties inherent in the litigation process. In addition, it is likely that we will become subject to counterclaims in any litigation to which we are a party, which may result in us being subject to damages or other obligations. Similarly, our ability to monetize our technology through licensing or sale is speculative and subject to a number of factors, including the outcome of litigation concerning our patent portfolio and the actual and perceived value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. To date, we have entered into two agreements to license our intellectual property to third parties, which have resulted in nominal revenues to date. Due to the suspension of traditional business operations, our failure to realize value from our ongoing or future litigation or efforts to monetize our patent portfolio is expected to have a material adverse impact on our already limited financial resources, which could cause to cease operations or otherwise cause you to lose your entire investment in us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in generating revenue from any of these non-traditional sources. On February 4, 2014, a jury returned a verdict in our favor in our litigation with Chicony Power Technology Co., LTD (“Chicony”). However, the verdict is subject to appeal. If Chicony elects to appeal the verdit any success Chicony would have in its appeal. would likely have a material adverse on our financial condition. As previously reported, in our litigation with Chicony, we were awarded damages of approximately $10.8 million, offset by previously accrued liabilities of $1.1 million for a net award of approximately $9.7 million. The outcome of the trial is subject to appeal, though we have no knowledge as to whether Chicony will or will not appeal the judgment. With or without an appeal, , we would need to successfully collect whatever damages might ultimately be awarded to us. In addition, if the judgment is appealed and we are unable to sustain our operations through an appeal process, we may be required to raise additional capital through proceeds from other litigated matters or debt or equity financing. We cannot be certain that we will prevail or settle in any other ongoing litigation, or that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we do not receive funds from other litigation matters or secure financing in the future, we may be forced to liquidate our assets or discontinue our operations altogether. We entered into separate alternative fee arrangements in our third quarter of fiscal 2014 with our legal counsel representing us in both the Chicony matter and our ongoing intellectual property infringement and enforcement litigation, and if either of our existing counsel were to resign from representing us, we may not be able to engage new counsel on similar terms, if at all. If either of the firms representing us in our ongoing commercial or I/P litigation resigns or, for any reason, is unable to conclude our existing litigation, the Company may not be able to replace counsel on similar terms, if at all. In the event that either of our legal firms resigns and we are unable to replace our legal counsel, we may be unable to conclude our litigation and may be forced to discontinue our operations altogether. 4 Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our recurring losses from operations, strategic shift in traditional operations, negative working capital and uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise additional funds. Our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the next twelve months and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from our inability to continue as a going concern. In order for us to continue operations beyond the next twelve months and be able to discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business, we must begin to expand the monetization of our intellectual property; manage operating expenses; prevail in our ongoing litigation; suceed in collecting damages awarded to us and possibly raise additional funds, through either debt and/or equity financing to meet our working capital needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to monetize our intellectual property, manage expenses, prevail in our ongoing litigation and succeed in collecting any damages awarded to us, or obtain additional funds through either debt or equity financing transactions or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to expand the monetization of our intellectual property, manage expenses, prevail in our ongoing litigation and succeed in collecting damages awarded to us, or raise additional capital through debt or equity financings, we may be unable to continue to fund our operations, or realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. These uncertainties continues to raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets, and might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. The accompanying financial statements do not contain any adjustments for this uncertainty. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation, settlement or licensing costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. These intellectual property infringement claims, whether we ultimately are found to be infringing on any third party’s intellectual property rights or not, are time-consuming, costly to defend, and divert resources and management attention away from our other priorities. We have previously been subject to litigation alleging that our products infringed on a third party’s intellectual property. Infringement claims by third parties also could subject us to significant damage awards or fines or require us to pay large amounts to settle such claims. Additionally, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on acceptable terms or substitute similar technology from other sources, we could be prevented from or restricted in selling our products containing, or manufactured with, the infringed technology. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to spend significant resources enforcing these rights or otherwise suffer competitive injury. Due to our suspension of traditional operations, our success is highly dependent on our ability to monetize our proprietary technology. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and in certain other countries, and upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and partners to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology. Our future and pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all. In addition, we may not have sufficient capital to continue to prosecute and maintain our existing patents or new or existing patent applications. Others may independently develop similar proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to and disclose our proprietary information and technology, and our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or others, whether in the United States or in foreign countries. Our employees, customers, or partners also could breach our confidentiality agreements, for which we may not have an adequate remedy available. We also may not be able to timely detect the infringement of our intellectual property rights. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries may not afford the same protection to intellectual property rights as do the laws of the United States. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position. During fiscal 2012, we notified approximately 11 companies, including Kensington, that we believe they are manufacturing and distributing products that infringe on one or more of our patents. One of the companies entered into a license agreement with us shortly after being notified of the infringement. Kensington entered into license agreement with us in settlement of time consuming and costly infringement litigation. We have to date not taken any formal action against the other 9 companies who had previously been noticed. Whether or not we are successful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights, litigation is time-consuming and costly, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. 5 We cannot be certain of the ultimate costs required to conclude our current litigation and may not be able to continue these proceedings. We incurred approximately $0.6 million in legal and related expert fees during fiscal 2014 related to the Chicony matter, which is net of approximately $0.4 million in payments made by our insurance carrier under a reservation of rights. Additionally, we incurred approximately $1.2 million in legal fees during fiscal 2014 related to the Kensington matter. On March 10, 2014, we filed a lawsuit against Targus seeking damages for patent infringement and breach of contract claims. We are unable to determine the future expenditures related to the Targus matter. The costs incurred for the current litigation may continue to significantly adversely impact our operating results and we may determine that due to the unpredictable nature of the costs and timing of the outcomes, we will no longer be able to peruse these actions. Our strategy to license and/or monetize the value of our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property through enforcement may not be successful. As noted above, during fiscal 2012 we notified approximately 11 companies, including Kensington, that we believe they are manufacturing and distributing products that infringe on one or more of our patents. One of the companies entered into a license agreement with us shortly after being notified of the infringement. On February 4, 2014, Kensington entered into a settlement agreement and licensing agreement with us with an effective date of February 1, 2014 that dismisses all claims between the two parties arising from this matter. We do not know the ultimate outcome of the remaining 9 notifications and we may not be successful in our efforts to monetize our intellectual property through these enforcement actions. If we fail to successfully resolve our dispute with Broadwood Partners, L.P. (“Broadwood”), we may be subjected to litigation and/or may be required to issue additional shares of common stock. As described elsewhere in this report, on July 27, 2012, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the “SPA”) with Broadwood which provided for the purchase by Broadwood of up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.00 per share. The SPA provided that if at any time up to July 27, 2013 we sold any shares of our common stock at a price of less than $1.00 per share we would be required to issue outright to Broadwood a number of additional shares sufficient to reduce the per share price paid by Broadwood to that lower price. On July 27, 2012, we also entered into a Warrant Commitment Letter, which provided that if we raised less than $3.0 million from sales of equity securities to other investors during the six months ended January 28, 2013, then Broadwood would receive an additional warrant entitling it to purchase up to 1,000,000 additional shares. We were informed by Broadwood on January 28, 2013, that it was Broadwood’s position that one or more of the conditions precedent to its obligation to purchase the Company’s shares pursuant to the SPA had not been satisfied and, as a result, Broadwood would not consummate that purchase. It is our position that, contrary to Broadwood’s assertions, all of the conditions under the SPA had been satisfied, and Broadwood’s refusal to purchase 3,000,000 shares of our common stock, at the price of $1.00 per share, constituted a material breach by Broadwood of its obligations under the SPA. As of the date of filing this report, we have not issued any additional shares to Broadwood and each party has reserved its rights under and with respect to the SPA and the Broadwood Warrants. If we are unable to successfully resolve this dispute with Broadwood, we may be subjected to litigation and/or may be required to issue additional warrants and/or shares to Broadwood. We cannot be certain of the availability of debt or equity financing or the impact that Broadwood’s failure to fund the SPA will have on our future financing efforts. Due to our suspension of traditional operations, our success is highly dependent on our ability to monetize our proprietary technology and successful outcome in our ongoing litigation matters. If we are not successfully in collecting damages awarded to us in the Chicony matter or monetizing our patents, we will require additional capital from debt or equity financing to fund our operations. Although we took action to reduce personnel and related costs in fiscal years 2014 and 2013, there can be no assurance that we will generate positive cash flow. We cannot be certain that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Additionally, Broadwood’s failure to have funded the SPA and our related dispute with Broadwood may adversely impact our financing efforts. If we cannot secure financing in the future, we may be forced to liquidate our assets or discontinue operations and our shareholders may lose all or a part of their investment in our common stock. 6 A majority of our common stock is held by just a few stockholders, which will make it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and which influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders. As of April 1, 2014, our two largest stockholders owned an aggregate of approximately 60% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Elkhorn Partners Limited Partnership (“Elkhorn”) owned approximately 49% and Broadwood owned approximately 11%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock at April 1, 2014. These stockholders, and Elkhorn in particular, will have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by one or more of these stockholders could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase us, take us over, and/or reducing the market price offered for our common stock in such an event. If we default on our loan agreement with Elkhorn, we could lose all of our assets. On February 11, 2013, we entered into a secured loan agreement with Elkhorn. Our obligations under the loan agreement and corresponding loan are secured by substantially all of our assets, including a pledge to Elkhorn of the stock of our operating subsidiary, CWT. The loan matures on November 30, 2014. The loan agreement provides that if and to the extent we do not pay the Elkhorn Loan in full by November 30, 2014, then, Elkhorn will have the right, at its option (but not the obligation), to convert the then unpaid balance of the loan, in whole or in part, into shares of Company common stock at a conversion price of $0.25 per share. That conversion price is subject to possible adjustment on (i) certain sales of Company common stock at a price lower than $0.25 per share, (ii) stock splits of, stock dividends on and any reclassification of the Company’s outstanding shares, and (iii) certain mergers or reorganizations of the Company. If we default on our obligation relating to the loan agreement, Elkhorn could foreclose on all of our assets, both tangible and intangible, leaving us with no assets. If the Elkhorn transaction in fiscal 2014 resulted in a Section 382 ownership change, it would substantially limit our research and experimentation credits and net operating loss carryforwards. Concurrent with the execution of the Elkhorn Loan Agreement, on February 11, 2013, Elkhorn entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with us (the “Elkhorn Stock Purchase Agreement”). Pursuant to that Elkhorn Stock Purchase Agreement, we sold 6,250,000 shares of our common stock to Elkhorn at a price of $0.16 per share, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $1.0 million. As a result of our sale of the 6,250,000 shares of common stock to Elkhorn pursuant to the Elkhorn Stock Purchase Agreement, Elkhorn’s beneficial ownership has increased from approximately 9% to approximately 49% of our outstanding voting stock, making Elkhorn our largest shareholder. We are reviewing whether a Section 382 ownership change may have occurred as a result of this Elkhorn transaction. If this transaction results in an ownership change, it would substantially limit our research and experimentation credits and net operating loss carryforwards. We are highly dependent on our one employee, Tom Lanni. In January 2014, Ms. Alisha Charlton, our Chief Accounting Officer, resigned. Currently, we have one employee, Tom Lanni, who is our Chief Executive Officer and President. In addition to being our Chief Executive Officer, President and only employee, Mr. Lanni has extensive knowledge concerning the technology underlying our patent portfolio as a result of his 20 year tenure with us. The loss of Mr. Lanni’s services could adversely impact our ability to maximize the value of our patent portfolio or otherwise negatively affect our operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and, if our operating results decline or are worse than expected, or if our litigation prospects decline materially, our stock price could fall. We do not expect significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results as we have effectively suspended traditional operations and are now primarily focused on potentially realizing value from our ongoing litigation as well as exploring opportunities to expand, protect, and monetize our patent portfolio, including through the potential sale or licensing of our patent portfolio. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including: ● Our suspension of historic, traditional business operations; ● Our ability to prevail in our ongoing and any future litigation; ● Our ability to raise additional funds through the sale or licensing of our patent portfolio; and ● Legal expenses incurred related to our and any future ongoing litigation. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed including operations in support of our administrative expense. If our operating results decline or are below expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock may decline significantly. 7 We have concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of January 31, 2014 which could cause deficiencies in our financial reporting and investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as discussed in “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” in Item 9A of this report. Specifically, our management has concluded that due to a lack of accounting and information technology staff there is a lack of segregation of duties necessary for an appropriate system of internal controls. While we will continue to implement our internal controls over financial reporting, because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all material misstatements, errors or omissions. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more “significant deficiencies” (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. If we fail to implement adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. Moreover, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of common stock. Provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or deter other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: ● the authorization of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by the board of directors, without the approval of our shareholders; ● the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; ● the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and other proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; ● the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain business combinations with interested stockholders; and ● the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain changes to specific provisions of our Articles of Incorporation (including those provisions described above). Our stock price has been and will likely remain highly volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry stock price fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price of our stock has exhibited significant price fluctuations, which makes our stock unsuitable for many investors. Our stock price may also be affected by the following factors: ● Our quarterly operating results; ● Realizing value from our ongoing or future litigation as well as exploring opportunities to expand, protect, and monetize our patent portfolio, including through the potential sale or licensing of our patent portfolio. ● The timing and announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us, and ● Other events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. 8 All of these factors, as well as others not discussed above, may contribute to the volatility of our stock price. Because our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, you may find it difficult to dispose of or obtain quotations for our common stock Our common stock trades under the symbol “CMRO” on the over-the-counter market OTCQB. Because our stock trades over-the-counter, rather than on a national securities exchange, you may find it difficult to either dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define “penny stocks” as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If we do not fall within any exemptions from the “penny stock” definition, we will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which regulations are commonly referred to as the “Penny Stock Rules.” The Penny Stock Rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. If our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules, as an issuer of “penny stock” we are unable to utilize the safe harbor provisions of the Forward Looking Statements sections of the Exchange Act. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for an exemption from the Penny Stock Rules, or that if an exemption currently exists, that we will continue to qualify for such exemption. In any event, we are subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the Penny Stock Rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 