ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability; we may need additional capital in the future to fund our businesses, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. We have experienced operating losses in the past, and we expect that we will incur additional operating losses in the future unless we achieve higher sales volume. We incurred pre-tax losses from continuing operations of $9.0 million and $13.1 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are out of our control, including the demand for our products, costs of components used in our products, lead times on certain critical semi-conductor components, and the cost of manufacturing overhead charged by our Contract Manufacturers (“CM’s”). We currently anticipate that our available capital resources, including borrowings available to us under our existing credit facility (see Notes 10 and 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report), will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements as our business is currently conducted for at least the next 12 months. As we execute on our current strategy, however, we may require further debt and/or equity capital to fund our working capital needs. In particular, we have experienced, and anticipate that we may experience a negative operating cash flow in the future. We may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings if such financings become available on acceptable terms, or we may seek working capital financing through the extension of additional credit. We cannot be certain that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will have to reduce our costs for our ChargeSource® products and achieve higher sales volumes for our business to become profitable, and if we fail to achieve cost reductions and higher sales volumes for our products, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. We experienced positive gross profit margins beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 but gross margins were negative in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009, and previous fiscal years. We operate in a very competitive marketplace where reducing product costs to meet competitive pressures is a constant and we may experience negative gross margins in the future. In order to reduce our cost of revenue, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for the components used in our products along with the price we pay our contract manufacturers for the finished product(s) they provide to us. Additionally, if we are not able to reduce our cost of revenue and increase our gross profit margins accordingly, our current level of sales is insufficient to absorb our operating expenses. Our ability to drive increased sales is dependent upon many factors including the following: • Successful development and release for manufacture of certain AC, DC, and AC/DC standalone power adapter products designed to address the requirements of our retail and OEM channels; • Securing additional OEM partners; and • Market and customer acceptance of our new products, some of which were introduced to the market late in fiscal year 2010 and others which we expect will follow during fiscal year 2011. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to increase sales or reduce our cost of revenue. If we fail to reduce our cost of revenue or achieve higher sales volumes for our ChargeSource® products, we may not achieve or sustain profitability and our results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted. 8 Table of Contents In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission in cooperation with us, announced a voluntary recall of one of our power adapters. In addition, we may experience quality or safety defects in our products in the future that could cause us to institute additional product recalls, require us to provide replacement products and harm our reputation. On April 30, 2010, the CPSC announced the recall of approximately 500,000 units of our ChargeSource 90-watt universal AC power adapter sold to our distributer, Targus. These units were sold from June 2009 through March 2010. Of the units affected by the Recall, we estimate that approximately 400,000 units are in the hands of consumers, while another 100,000 are currently in the distribution channel. As a result of the Recall, we accrued a $4.0 million charge to cost of revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as an estimate of the cost to replace the affected units and $0.6 million related to selling, general and administrative costs expected to be incurred related to the Recall. Actual amounts may differ materially from our current estimates based on many factors, including the number of impacted 90-watt universal power adapters returned to Comarco by Targus and its customers, primarily consumer electronics retailers, and end-user consumers. Also, the estimate is based on Comarco’s assessment of Targus’ and Comarco’s respective obligations regarding returned product. Targus and Comarco have not reached full agreement with respect to such matters and adverse developments with respect to such matters could materially increase the costs of the Recall to Comarco. Actual amounts incurred by Comarco as a result of the Recall may differ materially from the amounts in the reserves Comarco established as a result of the Recall. The Recall resulted in material costs and expenses and we may incur costs and expenses beyond the reserves we established as a result of the Recall. In addition, the Recall and any future recalls could materially and adversely affect our brand image, cause a decline in our sales and profitability, and reduce or deplete our financial resources. There is the risk that key customers may cancel orders, change order quantities or delay order delivery dates as a result of the Recall or any future product recalls. The Recall and any future product recalls could require substantial administrative resources which may detract management’s attention from our core business strategies. In addition, the Recall and any future product recalls may result in disputes with suppliers and customers or lead to adverse proceedings such as arbitration or litigation which can be costly and expensive. In the course of conducting our business, we experience and attempt to address various quality and safety issues with our products, as our products must meet exacting technical and performance standards. Often product defects are identified during our design, development, and manufacturing processes, which we are able to correct in a timely manner. Sometimes, defects are identified after introduction and shipment of products. If we are unable to fix defects in a timely manner or adequately address quality control issues, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, our reputation may suffer and we may lose customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, customer relationships, reputation, and prospects. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from two customers and we are dependent upon our relationships with them and upon their performance. Any loss of, reduction, cancellation, or delay in purchases by these customers would negatively impact our revenue, business, prospects, and operating results. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from a very limited number of customers. Our two key customers for fiscal 2010 accounted for $26.2 million, or nearly all of our total revenue. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a large percentage of our revenue in the future. In particular, we believe that Targus, which accounted for 71 percent of our fiscal 2010 revenue, will continue to represent a large percentage of our future revenue as Targus is the exclusive distributor of our ChargeSource® products under the agreement we signed with Targus in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Our future success will depend in part on Targus’ ability and willingness to effectively and widely distribute our products. Any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more of our key customers, or any refusal or inability of one or more of our key customers to take delivery of ordered products, would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the CPSC in cooperation with us, announced the Recall. As a result of the temporary cessation of manufacturing and shipping our new “Slim and Light” product and the significant decline in sales of our legacy products which occurred during the quarter ended April 30, 2010, Comarco’s sales to Targus for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were adversely affected. To the extent the Recall adversely affects our relationship with Targus, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, any loss of, reduction, cancellation, or delay in purchases by our key customers would negatively impact our revenue, business, prospects, and operating results unless we are able to develop other customers who purchase products at comparable levels. Developing alternative customers could be time-consuming, disruptive, and costly to our business. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may have excess or insufficient product inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. To ensure availability of our products for our customers, in some cases we commit to purchase the components and/or finished products based on forecasts provided by customers in advance of receiving purchase orders from them. Most of our customers are distributors who in turn sell our products to resellers and/or end users, which cause us to have limited visibility into ultimate product demand, making forecasting more difficult. As a result, we have historically, and expect in the future, to continue to incur inventory costs in advance of anticipated revenue. Because demand for our products may not materialize as we expect, purchasing based on forecasts subjects us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased obsolescence and may increase our costs. A significant increase in the demand for our products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory purchases while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory quantities on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological development and rapid product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. In the future, if our inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our cost of revenue at the time of such determination. Therefore, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. If we overestimate customer demand for our products or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. In fiscal 2009, we incurred $1.5 million of inventory reserve and scrap costs recorded primarily in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Similarly, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient product inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships, which also could harm our business. Our business and operational results are subject to the seasonal demand fluctuations of the consumer product and retail industries, as well as general economic and retail uncertainty. The seasonality of the consumer product and retail industries will affect our business. For example, our OEM and retail distribution partners typically order the great majority of the products they expect to sell during the holiday season during the first three calendar quarters. Accordingly, we expect that our sales may be concentrated during the first three calendar quarters and lower in the fourth calendar quarter. Additionally, our revenues depend significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which have been weak due to current worldwide economic weaknesses. Continued economic weakness and weak consumer spending may adversely affect our revenues, the sell through ability of our customers, or otherwise negatively impact our business strategy. If legislative actions taken to enhance the economy fail, or if the current economic situation deteriorates further, our business could be negatively impacted. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, any of which would reduce our sales and adversely affect our operating results. Since most of our customers purchase our products from us on a purchase order basis, they may cancel, change, or delay product purchase commitments with little notice to us. As a result, we are not always able to forecast with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period and sometimes we may increase our inventory, working capital, and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced, or canceled. The following factors, among others, affect our ability to forecast accurately our sales and production capacity: • Changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; and • Electronic component long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete actual/anticipated customer orders. Delayed, reduced or canceled purchase orders also may result in our inability to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of those orders, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials and write-offs of obsolete inventory. 10 Table of Contents Failure to adjust our operations in response to changing market conditions or failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results. Consumer demand for our ChargeSource® mobile power products has been subject to fluctuations as a result of our choices of distribution partners, market acceptance of our products, the timing and size of customer orders, and consumer demand for rechargeable mobile electronic devices. Accordingly, it has been difficult for us to forecast the demand for these products. We also are limited in our ability to quickly adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions because a significant portion of our sales and marketing, design and other engineering, and supply chain costs are fixed. If customer demand for our products declines or if we otherwise fail to accurately forecast reduced customer demand, we will likely experience excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if market conditions improve, our inventory may not be adequate to fill increased customer demand. As a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. The products we make are complex and have short life cycles. If we are unable to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new products, some of our products may become obsolete and our operating results could suffer. The consumer electronics industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Our mobile power products have short life cycles, and may become obsolete over relatively short periods of time. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce, and deliver on a timely basis and in sufficient quantity new products, components, and enhancements. The success of any new product offering will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • Properly identify customer needs and technological trends; • Timely develop new technologies and applications; • Price our products and services competitively; • Timely manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volume, and • Differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Development of new products requires high levels of innovation from both our engineers and our component suppliers. Development of a new product often requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the product. If we dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of products that do not achieve broad market acceptance, our operating results may suffer. Our operating results may also be adversely affected due to the timing of product introductions by competitors, especially if a competitor introduces a new product before our own comparable product is ready to be introduced. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, and our profitability will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The consumer electronics industry in which we sell our products is highly competitive. We compete on many levels, including the timing of development and introduction of new products, technology, price, quality, customer service, and support. Our competitors range from some of the industries’ largest corporations to relatively small and highly specialized firms. Many of our competitors possess advantages over us, including greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger and more established customer and supplier relationships. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs. If we do not have the resources or expertise necessary to compete or to match our competitors or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive disadvantages, we could lose customers and revenue. 11 Table of Contents The average selling prices of our products will likely decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Our products will likely experience a reduction in their average selling prices over their respective sales cycles and price pressures could negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, as we introduce new or next-generation products, sales prices of legacy products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product costs. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs. In order to do so, we must work closely with our contract manufacturers to carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, and the price we pay to these manufacturers for the finished product. In addition, inventory levels must be tightly managed. If we are unable to reduce the overall production cost of legacy products as new products are introduced, our average gross margins will likely decline and adversely affect our operating results. Economic, political, and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently outsource the manufacture of our ChargeSource® products to contract manufacturers in China. Additionally, international revenue accounted for approximately 30 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2010. Accordingly, our business is subject to worldwide economic and market conditions and risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, weaknesses in the economic conditions in particular countries or regions, the stability of international monetary conditions, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest and disruptions, and delays in shipments. Essentially, we currently do all business with our foreign supply base in U.S. dollars. Our costs increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar. Also, we cannot be sure that our international supply base will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our costs will become more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. These factors could adversely affect our ability to outsource our manufacturing and supply needs to foreign countries as well as our sales of products and services in international markets. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers and any delays, disruptions or quality control problems in the manufacturing operations of such manufacturers and suppliers or any disruptions in our relationships with our contract manufacturers and suppliers could adversely impact our ability to sell our products, harm our reputation, impair our customer relations and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We currently procure, and expect to continue to procure, certain components from single source manufacturers who provide unique component designs or who meet certain quality and performance requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase customized components from single sources in order to take advantage of volume pricing discounts. In fiscal 2010, three of the CM’s for our ChargeSource® products provided $16.9 million or 86 percent of the product costs included in cost of revenue and in fiscal 2009 one of the CM’s for our ChargeSource® products provided $10.5 million or 87 percent of the product costs included in cost of revenue. The performance of our contract manufacturers and suppliers is largely outside of our control and involves various risks, including risks associated with limited control over price, procurement of raw materials, timely delivery, and quality. In the past, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, shortages of products purchased from single sources or a limited number of suppliers. Our contract manufacturers and suppliers may fail to timely deliver products or fail to provide products of sufficient quality or which fail to meet required specifications. We believe that the Recall is a direct result of our contract manufacturer failing to meet our technical specifications. If this occurs or if our relationship with our contract manufacturers and suppliers is disrupted in any way, we may lose sales, or we may be required to adjust both product designs and/or production schedules or develop suitable alternative contract manufacturers and suppliers, which could result in delays in the production and delivery of products to our customers. Any such delays, disruptions or quality problems could adversely impact our ability to sell our products, harm our reputation, impair our customer relationships, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. 12 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation, settlement or licensing costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. These intellectual property infringement claims, whether we ultimately are found to be infringing any third party’s intellectual property rights or not, are time-consuming, costly to defend, and divert resources and management attention away from our operations. In this regard we were previously involved in litigation where the other party alleged that we were infringing on their intellectual property. We denied liability and countersued and on May 26, 2009, at the request of the parties, the court dismissed the entire case, without prejudice, with each party to bear its own costs and attorneys’ fees. For more information regarding this matter, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Infringement claims by third parties also could subject us to significant damage awards or fines or require us to pay large amounts to settle such claims. Additionally, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on acceptable terms or substitute similar technology from other sources, we could be prevented from or restricted in selling our products containing, or manufactured with, the infringed technology. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to spend significant resources enforcing these rights or otherwise suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and in certain other countries, and upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and partners to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology. We are required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights; however these rights might not necessarily provide us with a sufficient competitive advantage. Our future and pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all. Others may independently develop similar proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to and disclose our proprietary information and technology, and our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or others, whether in the United States or in foreign countries. Our employees, customers, or partners also could breach our confidentiality agreements, for which we may not have an adequate remedy available. We also may not be able to timely detect the infringement of our intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Whether or not we are successful in enforcing and protecting our intellectual property rights, litigation is time-consuming and costly, diverts resources and management attention away from our operations, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. If we suffer the loss of our corporate headquarters or the loss of one of our contract manufacturer’s facilities due to catastrophe, our operations would be adversely affected. We have one corporate office, which is located in Lake Forest, California. Although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for all possible catastrophes, including interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Any significant disruption in our access to the facility, whether due to fire, natural disaster, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, the manufacturing of our ChargeSource® products is performed by contract manufacturers located in China. If any significant disruption occurs in the facilities in China, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We depend upon the services of key personnel, and may not be able to attract and retain additional key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, and executive personnel. If for any reason our key personnel left our employ and we failed to replace a sufficient qualified number of these personnel, we might not be able to maintain or expand our 13 Table of Contents business. Competition for such highly skilled personnel in the consumer electronics industry is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire or re-hire sufficiently qualified personnel in adequate numbers to meet the demand for our products and services. If we are unable to identify, hire, and integrate these skilled personnel in a timely or cost-efficient manner, our operating results could suffer. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, if our operating results decline or are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including: • The size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • The degree and rate of growth in the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • Limitations in our ability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • Our ability to introduce, and the timing of our introductions of, new or enhanced products; • Product failures and recalls, product quality control problems and associated in-field service support costs; • Warranty expenses; • Availability and cost of components; • Changes in average sales prices, and • Normal market sales seasonality. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our cost of sales and operating expenses are relatively fixed including operations and supply chain overhead in support of our contract manufacturers; engineering and sales/administrative expense. If we experience a decline in revenue, we may be unable to reduce our fixed costs quickly enough to compensate for the decline, which would magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If our operating results decline or are below expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock may decline significantly. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws and at least one agreement to which we are a party contain provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws and at least one agreement to which we are a party may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of common stock. Provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or deter other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by the board of directors, without the approval of our shareholders; • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and other proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; • the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain business combinations with interested stockholders; and • the requirement that the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve certain changes to specific provisions of our Articles of Incorporation (including those provisions described above). 14 Table of Contents In addition, if, pursuant to the terms of the Compromise Settlement Agreement and Release (the “iGo Agreement”), dated as of July 12, 2003, among the Company, iGo, Inc. (formerly, Mobility Electronics, Inc.) (“iGo”) and the other parties identified therein, the Company assigns the iGo Agreement under the circumstances contemplated therein, the Company would be required to pay $5 million to iGo. Our stock price has been and will likely remain highly volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry stock price fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price of our stock has exhibited significant price fluctuations, which makes our stock unsuitable for many investors. Our stock price may also be affected by the following factors: • Our quarterly operating results; • Changes in the consumer electronics industries; • Changes in the economic outlook of the particular markets in which we sell our products and services; • The gain or loss of significant customers; • Reductions in demand or expectations of future demand by our customers; • Changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors, or our customers; • The timing and announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us, and • Other events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. All of these factors may contribute to the volatility of our stock price. The trading volume of our common stock often has been limited and may depress the price for our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price, even if temporary, could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The trading volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be limited. Limited trading volume could depress the price for our common stock because fewer analysts may provide coverage for our stock and because investors might be unwilling to pay a higher market price for a stock that is less liquid. This limited trading volume, along with market and industry stock price fluctuations and other factors affecting our operations, may depress the price for our common stock or result in greater volatility in the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 