ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Failure to adjust our operations in response to changing market conditions or failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results. The spending patterns of many of our WTS customers have been volatile, unpredictable, and driven by market and technological factors that we cannot control or predict. In addition, consumer demand for our ChargeSource® mobile power products has been subject to fluctuations as a result of our choices of distribution partners, market acceptance of our products, the timing and size of customer orders, and consumer demand for rechargeable mobile electronic devices. Accordingly, it has been difficult for us to forecast the demand for these products. We also are limited in our ability to quickly adapt our manufacturing and related cost structures to changing market conditions because a significant portion of our sales and marketing, design and other engineering, and manufacturing costs are fixed. If customer demand for our WTS and ChargeSource® products declines or if we otherwise fail to accurately forecast reduced customer demand, we will likely experience excess capacity, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if market conditions improve, our manufacturing capacity may not be adequate to fill increased customer demand. As a result, we might not be able to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and operating results. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of our WTS products to customers in the wireless communications industry. We are currently experiencing a significant decrease in revenue caused by widespread industry consolidation including substantial delays in purchasing decisions by our customers and reduced demand for our products. If these market conditions continue, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. Revenue from the sale of our WTS products accounted for 29 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2008. Wireless carriers are the primary customers for our WTS products. These customers operate in an environment driven by new technology, increased competition, and regulatory change. To compete effectively, the wireless carriers must offer their subscribers lower prices, improved quality of service, and innovative new services. Increasing use, global subscribers, and data-intensive applications are driving higher capacity utilization of existing networks, requiring wireless carriers around the globe to place a greater emphasis on capital expenditures devoted to their wireless networks. Despite this greater emphasis, current demand for our WTS products has decreased compared to the prior fiscal year driven by widespread industry consolidation, delays in purchasing decisions by our customers, increased competition, and increased pricing pressure. If these market conditions continue, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our call box revenue in fiscal 2008 was derived from non-recurring upgrades of call boxes for government customers. If we are unable to replace this revenue stream, our operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted. 8 Table of Contents Approximately $4.6 million and $10.0 million of our fiscal 2008 and 2007 call box revenue was generated from sales of digital and text-telephony upgrades to our installed base of call boxes. During fiscal 2009 we expect to substantially complete the previously awarded digital and TTY upgrade contracts. We expect call box revenue for fiscal 2009 to decrease compared to fiscal 2008. If we are unable to replace this revenue stream, our operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted. The ChargeSource® and WTS products we make are complex and have short life cycles. If we are unable to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new products, some of our products may become obsolete and our operating results could suffer. The wireless communications and consumer electronics industries are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Additionally, our ChargeSource® mobile power products have short life cycles, and may become obsolete over relatively short periods of time. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, introduce, and deliver on a timely basis and in sufficient quantity new products, components, and enhancements. The success of any new product offering will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • Properly identify customer needs and technological trends; • Timely develop new technologies and applications; • Price our products and services competitively; • Timely manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volume, and • Differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Development of new products requires high levels of innovation from both our engineers and our component suppliers. Development of a new product often requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the product. If we dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of products that do not achieve broad market acceptance, our operating results may suffer. Our operating results may also be adversely affected due to the timing of product introductions by competitors, especially if a competitor introduces a new product before our own comparable product is ready to be introduced. The wireless communications and consumer electronics industries are highly competitive, and our profitability will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The wireless communications and consumer electronics industries in which we sell our products are highly competitive. We compete on many levels, including the timing of development and introduction of new products, technology, price, quality, customer service, and support. Our competitors range from some of the respective industries’ largest corporations to relatively small and highly specialized firms. Many of our competitors possess advantages over us, including greater financial and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger and more established customer and supplier relationships. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs. If we do not have the resources or expertise necessary to compete or to match our competitors or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies to address these competitive disadvantages, we could lose customers and revenue. The average selling prices of our products may decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Our products may experience a reduction in the average selling prices over their respective sales cycles. Further, as we introduce new or next-generation products, sales prices of legacy products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs. In order to do so, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products, as well as manage our inventory costs to reduce overall product costs. If we are unable to reduce the overall production cost of legacy products as new products are introduced, our average gross margins may decline and adversely affect our operating results. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue is dependent in part upon our relationships with our strategic distribution partners and their performance. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationships with the distributors of our mobile power products, our revenue and operating results could suffer. Our ChargeSource® mobile power products are distributed by Kensington, a distributor of consumer electronics. Our success will depend in part upon Kensington’s ability and willingness to effectively and widely distribute our ChargeSource® products on a non-exclusive basis. If Kensington and any other distributors we may do business with in the future do not purchase the volume of products that we anticipate, our revenue and results of operations will suffer. During November 2006, in response to increased competition in the QoS market, we announced a cooperative alliance with Ascom, a leading specialist in wireless onsite communications solutions based in Switzerland, to develop, market, and support next-generation wireless network QoS, optimization, and test measurement systems. Together we have developed harmonized test and measurement systems and solutions for 3G and 4G wireless standards, accelerating the availability of upgrades to the installed base in Europe and our home markets, while enabling the rapid deployment of new products. These harmonized products and solutions are now available to the market. Additionally, the companies will share sales and support resources on a global basis. We believe our alliance with Ascom will open sales channels, particularly in our European region. Our success will depend in part upon Ascom’s ability to capture the current installed base in Europe, as well as to provide sales and support services in that region. If we are unable to sell our jointly developed harmonized products, our revenue and operating results could suffer. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of customers, and any loss of, cancellation, or delay in purchases by these customers could cause a significant decrease in our revenue. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Our two key customers for fiscal 2008 accounted for $8.4 million, or 36 percent of total revenue. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a large percentage of our revenue in the future. If any of our key customers reduces, cancels, or delays orders, and we are not able to develop other customers who purchase products at comparable levels, our revenue could decrease significantly. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more of our key customers would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience quality or safety defects in our products that could cause us to institute product recalls, require us to provide replacement products and harm our reputation. In the course of conducting our business, we experience and attempt to address various quality and safety issues with our products. Often product defects are identified during our design, development, and manufacturing processes, which we are able to correct in a timely manner. Sometimes, defects are identified after introduction and shipment of products. If we are unable to fix defects in a timely manner or adequately address quality control issues, our relationships with our customers may be impaired, our reputation may suffer and we may lose customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic, political, and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently maintain sales and support operations in the United States, China, Europe, and Latin America. Our international operations accounted for approximately 18 percent of total revenue for fiscal 2008. Accordingly, our business is subject to worldwide economic and market conditions and risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, weaknesses in the economic conditions in particular countries or regions, the stability of international monetary conditions, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest and disruptions, and delays in shipments. Specifically, our ChargeSource® contract manufacturer and a majority of our component suppliers are located in Asia. We do business with our foreign supply base in U.S. dollars. Our costs increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar. Also, we cannot be sure that our international supply base will 10 Table of Contents continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our costs will become more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. These factors could adversely affect our ability to outsource our manufacturing and supply needs to foreign countries as well as our sales of products and services in international markets. Our failure to address laws and regulations governing our government contracts, could adversely affect our Call Box business and operating results. We depend on contracts with state and local governmental agencies for a significant portion of our call box revenue, and are subject to various laws and regulations that only apply to companies doing business with the government. For example, we supply call boxes and provide installation and long-term maintenance services to regional and municipal transit authorities and other governmental agencies. In fiscal 2008, we derived 46 percent of our revenue from contracts with these governmental customers. From time to time we are also subject to investigation for compliance with regulations governing our government contracts. Our failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, or subject us to administrative claims. Disruptions in our relationships with our suppliers or in our suppliers’ operations could result in shortages of necessary components and adversely affect our operations. We currently procure, and expect to continue to procure, certain components from single source manufacturers who provide unique component designs or who meet certain quality and performance requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase customized components from single sources in order to take advantage of volume pricing discounts. In fiscal 2008, one of the contract manufacturers for our ChargeSource® products provided $2.2 million, or 19 percent of all inventory purchases, and the contract manufacturer of our printed circuit boards provided $1.6 million, or 14 percent of all inventory purchases. The performance of these suppliers is largely outside of our control. In the past, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, shortages of important single source components. Our suppliers may fail to timely deliver components or provide components of sufficient quality. If this occurs, we may need to adjust both product designs and production schedules, which could result in delays in the production and delivery of products to our customers. These delays or defects could harm our reputation, impair our customer relationships, and adversely affect our operations. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation, settlement or licensing costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products. Third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. These intellectual property infringement claims, whether we ultimately are found to be infringing any third party’s intellectual property rights or not, are time-consuming, costly to defend, and divert resources and management attention away from our operations. Infringement claims by third parties also could subject us to significant damage awards or fines or require us to pay large amounts to settle such claims. Additionally, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on acceptable terms or substitute similar technology from other sources, we could be prevented from or restricted in selling our products containing, or manufactured with, the infringed technology. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to spend significant resources enforcing these rights or otherwise suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and in certain other countries, and upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and partners to establish and maintain our intellectual proprietary rights in our proprietary technology. We are required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights; however these rights might not necessarily provide us with a sufficient competitive advantage. Our intellectual proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors or others. Our employees, customers or partners could breach our confidentiality agreements, for which we may not have an adequate remedy available. We also may not be able to timely detect the infringement of our intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position. 11 Table of Contents If we suffer the loss of our manufacturing facility due to catastrophe, our operations would be adversely affected. We have one manufacturing facility, which is located in Lake Forest, California. Although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for all possible catastrophes, including interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Any significant disruption in our manufacturing operations at the facility, whether due to fire, natural disaster, or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, as previously discussed, during fiscal 2005 we transitioned the manufacturing of our ChargeSource® products to a contract manufacturer located in China. If any significant disruption occurs in the facility in China, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We depend upon the services of key personnel, and may not be able to attract and retain additional key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services and experience of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, and executive personnel. If for any reason our key personnel left our employ and we failed to replace a sufficient number of these personnel, we might not be able to maintain or expand our business. Competition for such highly skilled personnel in our wireless communications and consumer electronics industries is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire or re-hire sufficiently qualified personnel in adequate numbers to meet the demand for our products and services. If we are unable to identify, hire, and integrate these skilled personnel in a timely or cost-efficient manner, our operating results could suffer. We may need additional capital in the future to fund the growth of our businesses, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating income will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, it is not assured that such resources will be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. In particular, we may experience a negative operating cash flow due to the timing of anticipated sales of our products. We may raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings if such financings become available on acceptable terms or we may seek working capital financing under a revolving line of credit. We cannot be certain that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, if our operating results decline or are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results for our three business segments. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including: • The size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • The degree and rate of growth in the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • Limitations in our ability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • Our ability to introduce, and the timing of our introductions of, new or enhanced products; • Product failures and recalls, product quality control problems and associated in-field service support costs; • Warranty expenses; • Availability and cost of components, and • Changes in average sales prices. 12 Table of Contents Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed due to sales, engineering, and manufacturing overhead. If we experience a decline in revenue, we may be unable to reduce our fixed costs quickly enough to compensate for the decline, which would magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. If our operating results decline or are below expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock may decline significantly. Our stock price has been and will likely remain highly volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry stock price fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. The market price of our stock has exhibited significant price fluctuations, which makes our stock unsuitable for many investors. Our stock price may also be affected by the following factors: • Our quarterly operating results; • Changes in the wireless communications and consumer electronics industries; • Changes in the economic outlook of the particular markets in which we sell our products and services; • The gain or loss of significant customers; • Reductions in demand or expectations of future demand by our customers; • Changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors, or our customers; • The timing and announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us, and • Other events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. All of these factors may contribute to the volatility of our stock price. The trading volume of our common stock often has been limited and may depress the price for our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price, even if temporary, could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The trading volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be limited. Limited trading volume could depress the price for our common stock because fewer analysts may provide coverage for our stock and because investors might be unwilling to pay a higher market price for a stock that is less liquid. This limited trading volume, along with market and industry stock price fluctuations and other factors affecting our operations, may depress the price for our common stock or result in greater volatility in the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 