Item 1a. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., including its common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect its business and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occur, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Commerce Bancshares, Inc. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the Company’s industry and may continue to do so. Given the concentration of the Company’s banking business in the United States, it is particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Recent dramatic declines in the housing market, falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to other complex financial instruments and various classes of loans, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future and could likely worsen, further negatively affecting the Company’s financial results. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Company may face increased regulation of the industry, including as a result of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Compliance with such regulation may increase costs and limit the ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause declines in consumer credit usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. These could impact the Company’s loan losses and provision for loan losses, as a significant part of the Company’s business includes consumer and credit card lending. • Reduced levels of economic activity may cause declines in financial service transactions and the fees earned by the Company on such transactions. • The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The process used to estimate losses inherent in the Company’s credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. 8 Table of Contents • The Company may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The performance of the Company is dependent on the economic conditions of the markets in which the Company operates. The Company’s success is heavily influenced by the general economic conditions of the specific markets in which it operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides financial services primarily throughout the states of Missouri, Kansas, and central Illinois, and has recently begun to expand into Oklahoma, Colorado and other surrounding states. Since the Company does not have significant presence in other parts of the country, a prolonged economic downturn in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Transactions with these institutions include overnight and term borrowings, interest rate swap agreements, securities purchased and sold, short-term investments, and other such transactions. As a result of this exposure, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client, while other transactions expose the Company to liquidity risks should funding sources quickly disappear. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to the Company. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect results of operations. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s businesses and it relies on the securities market and other external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. Liquidity affects the Company’s ability to meet its financial commitments. The Company’s main source of funding comes from customer deposits, which comprise 82% of its total funding at December 31, 2008. The Company’s other funding sources include the Federal Home Loan Bank and other wholesale providers. Its liquidity could be negatively affected if these funding sources diminish or cease to be available. Factors that the Company cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the general financial services industry could impair its ability to raise or maintain funding. If it is unable to raise funding, it would likely need to sell assets, such as its investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. The Company may be unable to sell some of its assets on a timely basis, or it may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect results of operations. The Company’s liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that it maintains sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct its business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If its liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, it may be unable to access sufficient financing to service its financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report for a discussion of how the Company monitors and manages liquidity risk. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. The Company uses estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, fair value is estimated primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on results of operations or financial condition. Valuation methodologies which are particularly susceptible to the conditions mentioned above include those used to value certain securities in the Company’s available for sale investment portfolio such as auction rate securities and non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities, in addition to non-marketable private equity securities, loans held for sale and intangible assets. The Company’s investment portfolio values may be adversely impacted by changing interest rates and deterioration in the credit quality of underlying collateral within mortgage and other asset-backed investment securities. The Company generally invests in securities issued by government-backed agencies or privately issued securities that are highly rated by credit rating agencies at the time of purchase, but are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads. Certain mortgage and asset-backed securities represent beneficial interests which are collateralized by residential mortgages, credit cards, automobiles, mobile homes or other assets. While these investment securities are highly rated at the time of initial investment, the value of these securities may decline significantly due to actual or expected deterioration in the underlying collateral, especially residential mortgage collateral. Recent market conditions have seen deterioration in fair values for certain types of non-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities. Furthermore, under impairment accounting rules, securities that are determined to have some level of other-than-temporary impairment due to declining expected cash flows, etc., are required to be adjusted to fair value through current earnings, which could result in significant non-cash losses beyond calculated impairments. The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s net interest income is the largest source of overall revenue to the Company, representing 61% of total revenue. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the 10 Table of Contents Company’s results of operations. However, any substantial, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Future loan losses could increase. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The Company has seen significant increases in losses in its loan portfolio, particularly in residential construction, consumer, and credit card loans, due to the deterioration in the housing industry and general economic conditions. Until the housing sector and overall economy begin to recover, it is likely that these losses will continue. While the Company’s credit loss ratios remain below industry averages, continued economic deterioration and further loan losses may negatively affect its results of operations and could further increase levels of its allowance. In addition, the Company’s allowance level is subject to review by regulatory agencies, that could require adjustments to the allowance. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan loss. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company operates in the financial services industry, a rapidly changing environment having numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers. The pace of consolidation among financial service providers is accelerating and there are many new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation. New entrants offering competitive products continually penetrate our markets. The Company must continue to make investments in its products and delivery systems to stay competitive with the industry as a whole or its financial performance may suffer. The Company’s reputation and future growth prospects could be impaired if events occurred which breached our customers’ privacy. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business, and as part of our business we maintain significant amounts of data about our customers and the products they use. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurances that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Should any of these systems become compromised, the reputation of the Company could be damaged, relationships with existing customers impaired and result in lost business and incur significant expenses trying to remedy the compromise. The Company may not attract and retain skilled employees. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense, and the Company spends considerable time and resources attracting and hiring qualified people for its various business lines and support units. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Item 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 Table of Contents 