Item 1a. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Commerce Bancshares, Inc. The performance of the Company is dependent on the economic conditions of the markets in which the Company operates. The Company’s success is heavily influenced by the general economic conditions of the states of Missouri, Kansas and central Illinois and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers in such metropolitan areas as Kansas City, St. Louis, and Springfield in 7 Table of Contents Missouri, Peoria and Bloomington in Illinois, and Wichita, Kansas. Since the Company does not have significant presence in other parts of the country, a prolonged economic downturn in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to Interest Rate Risk. The Company’s net interest income is the largest source of overall revenue to the Company, representing 59% of total revenue. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations. However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company operates in the financial services industry, a rapidly changing environment having numerous competitors including other banks and insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, trust and investment companies and mortgage bankers. The pace of consolidation among financial service providers is accelerating and there are many new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation. New entrants offering competitive products continually penetrate our markets. The Company must continue to make investments in its products and delivery systems to stay competitive with the industry as a whole or its financial performance may suffer. Potential future loan losses could increase. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Over the past few years, historical losses have been low and the Company’s credit loss ratios have been below industry averages, in part due to the low level of commercial loan losses. Also, while the industry has experienced low levels of loan losses for several years, loan losses on residential construction and consumer loans have risen, especially in the second half of 2007. Much of this relates to the effects of the subprime lending issues and a general housing slowdown creating an uncertain economic outlook. If the recent trend is prolonged and losses continue to increase, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted by higher loan losses in the future. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan loss. The Company’s reputation and future growth prospects could be impaired if events occurred which breached our customers’ privacy. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business, and as part of our business we maintain significant amounts of data about our customers and the products they use. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurances that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Should any of these systems become compromised, the reputation of the Company could be damaged, relationships with existing customers impaired and result in lost business and incur significant expenses trying to remedy the compromise. 8 Table of Contents The Company may not attract and retain skilled employees. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense, and the Company spends considerable time and resources attracting and hiring qualified people for its various business lines and support units. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Item 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 