Item 1A: Risk Factors Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2: Properties Item 3: Legal Proceedings Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6: Selected Financial Data Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A: Controls and Procedures Item 9B: Other Information PART III Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11: Executive Compensation Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15: Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Index to Exhibits Statement re Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certification of President and CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of VP and CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of President and CEO Pursuant to Section 906 Certification of VP and CFO Pursuant to Section 906 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We manufacture, recycle, market and distribute steel and metal products and related materials and services through a network of locations located throughout the United States and internationally. We consider our business to be organized into five segments: domestic mills, CMCZ (our Polish mill CMC Zawiercie S.A. and related operations), domestic fabrication, recycling and marketing and distribution. We were incorporated in 1946 in the State of Delaware. Our predecessor company, a metals recycling business, has existed since approximately 1915. We maintain our executive offices at 6565 MacArthur Boulevard in Irving, Texas, telephone number (214) 689-4300. Our fiscal year ends August 31 and all references in this Form 10-K to years refer to the fiscal year ended August 31 of that year unless otherwise noted. Financial information for the last three fiscal years concerning our five business segments and the geographic areas of our operations is incorporated herein by reference from “Note 14 Business Segments” of the notes to consolidated financial statements which are in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website, http://www.commercialmetals.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. DOMESTIC MILLS SEGMENT We conduct our domestic mills operations through a network of: — 4 steel mills, commonly referred to as “minimills”, that produce reinforcing bar, angles, flats, rounds, small beams, fence-post sections and other shapes; — scrap metal processing facilities that directly support these minimills; and — a copper tube minimill. Minimills. We operate four steel minimills which are located in Texas, Alabama, South Carolina and Arkansas. We utilize a fleet of trucks that we own and private haulers to transport finished products from the minimills to our customers and our fabricating shops. To minimize the cost of our products, we try to operate all four minimills at full capacity. Market conditions such as increases in quantities of competing imported steel, production rates at domestic competitors, customer inventory levels or a decrease in construction activity may reduce demand for our products and limit our ability to operate the minimills at full capacity. Through our operations and capital improvements, we strive to increase productivity and capacity at the minimills and enhance our product mix. Since the steel minimill business is capital intensive, we make substantial capital expenditures on a regular basis to remain competitive with other low cost producers. Over the past three fiscal years we have spent approximately $128 million or 32% of our total capital expenditures on projects at our domestic steel minimills. The following table compares the amount of steel (in tons) melted, rolled and shipped by our four steel minimills in the past three fiscal years: 2004 2005 2006 Tons Melted 2,265,000 2,173,000 2,324,000 Tons Rolled 2,195,000 2,024,000 2,198,000 Tons Shipped 2,401,000 2,266,000 2,492,000 3 Table of Contents We acquired our largest steel minimill in 1963. It is located in Seguin, Texas, near San Antonio. In 1983, we acquired our minimill in Birmingham, Alabama. As part of the acquisition of Owen Steel Company, Inc. and its affiliates in 1995, we acquired our minimill in Cayce, South Carolina. We have operated our smallest mill since 1987, and it is located near Magnolia, Arkansas. The Texas, Alabama and South Carolina minimills each consist of: — melt shop with electric arc furnace that melts ferrous scrap metal; — continuous casting equipment that shape the molten metal into billets; — reheating furnace that prepares billets for rolling; — rolling mill that forms products from heated billets; — mechanical cooling bed that receives hot product from the rolling mill; — finishing facilities that cut, straighten, bundle and prepare products for shipping; and — supporting facilities such as maintenance, warehouse and office areas. Descriptions of minimill capacity, particularly rolling capacity, are highly dependent on the specific product mix manufactured. Each of our minimills can and do roll many different types and sizes of products in their range depending on pricing and demand. Therefore our capacity estimates assume a typical product mix and will vary with the products actually produced. Our Texas minimill has annual capacity of approximately 900,000 tons melted and 800,000 tons rolled. Our Alabama minimill’s annual capacity is approximately 650,000 tons melted and 575,000 tons rolled. We have annual capacity at our South Carolina minimill of approximately 700,000 tons melted and 800,000 tons rolled. Our Texas minimill manufactures a full line of bar size products including reinforcing bar, angles, rounds, channels, flats, and special sections used primarily in building highways, reinforcing concrete structures and manufacturing. Our Texas minimill sells primarily to the construction, service center, energy, petrochemical, and original equipment manufacturing industries. The Texas minimill primarily ships its products to customers located in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. It also ships products to approximately 22 other states and to Mexico. Our Texas minimill melted 905,000 tons during 2006 compared to 870,000 tons during 2005, and rolled 806,000 tons, an increase of 44,000 tons from 2005. The Alabama minimill recorded 2006 melt shop production of 693,000 tons, an increase of 66,000 tons from 2005. The Alabama minimill rolled 522,000 tons, an increase of 49,000 tons from 2005. Our Alabama minimill primarily manufactures products that are larger in size as compared to products manufactured by our other three minimills. Such larger size products include mid-size structural steel products including angles, channels, wide flange beams of up to eight inches and special bar quality rounds and flats. Our Alabama minimill sells primarily to service centers, as well as to the construction, manufacturing, and fabricating industries. The Alabama minimill primarily ships its products to customers located in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North and South Carolina, and Mississippi. Our South Carolina minimill manufactures a full line of bar size products which primarily include steel reinforcing bar. The minimill also manufactures angles, rounds, squares, fence post sections and flats. The South Carolina minimill ships its products to customers located in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic areas which include the states from Florida through southern New England. During 2006, the South Carolina minimill melted 725,000 tons and rolled 724,000 tons compared to 674,000 tons melted and 655,000 tons rolled during 2005. The primary raw material for our Texas, Alabama and South Carolina minimills is ferrous scrap metal. We purchase the raw material from suppliers generally within a 300 mile radius of each minimill. Ten scrap metals recycling plants located in Texas, South Carolina and Georgia are operated by our steel group due to the predominance of ferrous scrap metal sales to the nearby steel group operated minimills. Two of the segment’s ten recycling plants operate automobile shredders. The eight smaller facilities assist the two larger locations with shredders and our nearby minimills with the acquisition of ferrous scrap metal. These metal recycling plants processed and shipped 1,218,000 tons of scrap metals, primarily ferrous, during 2006. We believe the supply of ferrous scrap metal is adequate to meet our future needs, but it has historically been subject to significant price fluctuations which have occurred more rapidly during the last three years. All three minimills also consume large amounts of electricity and natural gas. Although we have not had any significant curtailments and believe that supplies are adequate, the price we pay for both electricity and natural gas has 4 Table of Contents increased substantially during recent years. Regional and national energy supply, demand and the extent of applicable regulatory oversight of rates charged by providers affect the prices we pay for electricity and natural gas. The smaller Arkansas minimill does not have a melt shop or continuous casting equipment. The Arkansas minimill manufacturing process begins with a reheating furnace utilizing used rail acquired primarily salvaged from railroad abandonments and excess billets acquired from either our other mills or unrelated suppliers as its raw material. The remainder of the manufacturing process utilizes rolling mill, cooling bed and finishing equipment and support facilities similar to, but on a smaller scale, than those at our other minimills. The Arkansas minimill primarily manufactures metal fence post stock, small diameter reinforcing bar, sign posts and bed frame angles with some flats, angles and squares. At our Arkansas minimill and at our facilities in San Marcos, Texas, Brigham City, Utah, and West Columbia, South Carolina, we fabricate fence post stock into studded “T” metal fence posts. The product is finished at facilities similar to, but smaller than, the other minimills. Since our Arkansas minimill does not have melting facilities, the minimill depends on an adequate supply of competitively priced used rail or billets. The availability of these raw materials fluctuates with the pace of railroad abandonments, rail replacement by railroads, demand for used rail from domestic and foreign rail rerolling mills and the level of excess billet production offered for sale at steel producers. We have annual capacity at our Arkansas minimill of approximately 150,000 tons rolled. CMC Howell. Our subsidiary, CMC Howell Metal,, operates a copper tube minimill in New Market, Virginia. The minimill manufactures copper tube, primarily water tubing, for the plumbing, air conditioning and refrigeration industries. Both high quality copper scrap and occasionally virgin copper ingot are melted, cast, extruded and drawn into tubing. The minimill supplies tubing in straight lengths and coils for use in commercial, industrial and residential construction and by original equipment manufacturers. Our customers, largely equipment manufacturers, wholesale plumbing supply firms and large home improvement retailers, are located primarily east of the Mississippi River and supplied directly from the minimill or three warehouses located along the east coast. The demand for copper tube depends on the level of new apartment, hotel/motel and residential construction and renovation. Copper scrap is readily available, but subject to rapid price fluctuations. The price or supply of virgin copper causes the price of copper scrap to fluctuate rapidly. Our recycling segment supplies a small portion of the copper scrap. CMC Howell’s facilities include melting, casting, piercing, extruding, drawing, finishing and office facilities. During 2006, the facility produced approximately 63 million pounds of copper tube. CMC Howell has annual manufacturing capacity of approximately 80 million pounds. No single customer purchases 10% or more of our domestic mills segment’s production. Due to the nature of certain stock products we sell in the domestic mills segment, we do not have a long lead time between receipt of a purchase order and delivery. We generally fill orders for stock products from inventory or with products near completion. As a result, we do not believe that backlog levels are a significant factor in the evaluation of our operations. Backlog for our four domestic steel mills at August 31, 2006 was approximately $329.1 million as compared to $169.8 million at August 31, 2005. CMCZ SEGMENT In December 2003, our Swiss subsidiary acquired 71.1% of the outstanding shares of Huta Zawiercie, S.A. (CMCZ), of Zawiercie, Poland for 200 million Polish Zlotys (PLN), $51.9 million on the acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition, we also assumed debt of 176 million PLN ($45.7 million). Since the initial acquisition we have acquired approximately 1.5% of the shares outstanding. The Polish State Treasury owns approximately 26.4% of the remaining outstanding shares. CMCZ is a steel minimill with equipment similar to our domestic steel minimills but also includes a second rolling mill which produces wire rod. CMCZ owns a majority interest in several smaller metals related operations, including two scrap metals processing facilities that directly support CMCZ. CMCZ has annual melting capacity of approximately 1,400,000 tons with annual rolling capacity of approximately 1,100,000 tons. During 2006, the facility melted 1,283,000 tons, rolled 1,121,000 tons and shipped 1,250,000 tons of steel. Principal products manufactured include rebar and wire rod as well as smaller quantities of merchant bar. With this acquisition, we have become a significant manufacturer of rebar and wire rod in Central Europe. We presented CMCZ, its subsidiaries and related operations as a separate segment because the economic characteristics of their markets and the regulatory environment in which they operate are not similar to that of our domestic minimills. CMCZ sells rebar primarily to fabricators, distributors and construction companies. Principal customers for wire rod are meshmakers, endusers and distributors. CMCZ’s products are generally sold to customers located within a market area of 400 miles of the mill. The majority of sales are to customers within Poland with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Germany being the major export markets. Ferrous scrap metal is the principal raw material for CMCZ and is generally obtained from scrap metal processors and generators within 400 miles of the mill. Ferrous scrap metal, electricity, natural gas and other necessary raw materials for the steel manufacturing process are generally 5 Table of Contents readily available although subject to periodic significant price fluctuations. During 2006 we spent $36.5 million or 28% of our total capital expenditures on projects at CMCZ and its subsidiaries. Included in these projects were the installation of a large capacity metal shredder facility similar to the largest automobile shredder we operate in the United States and the construction of a reinforcing bar fabrication facility. This shredder is wholly owned by a subsidiary and is located at leased premises at the CMC Zawiercie mill with its output of shredded ferrous scrap consumed by the CMC Zawiercie mill’s melt shop. The shredder commenced production late in the fiscal year. The reinforcing bar fabrication facility is also located on property leased from CMCZ and is wholly owned. The rebar fabrication facility is similar to those operated by our domestic fabrication segment and will sell fabricated rebar to contractors for incorporation into construction projects generally within 150 miles of the facility. DOMESTIC FABRICATION SEGMENT We conduct our domestic fabrication operations through a network of: — steel plants that bend, cut, weld and fabricate steel, primarily reinforcing bar and angles; — warehouses that sell or rent products for the installation of concrete; — plants that produce special sections for floors and ceiling support; — plants that produce steel fence posts; — plants that treat steel with heat to strengthen and provide flexibility; and — a railroad rail salvage company. Our domestic fabrication segment operates facilities that we consider to be engaged in the various related aspects of steel fabrication. Most of the facilities engage in general fabrication of reinforcing and structural steel with 7 locations specializing in fabricating joists and special beams for floor and ceiling support and 4 facilities fabricating only steel fence post. We obtain steel for these facilities from our own domestic minimills, purchases through our marketing and distribution segment and unrelated vendors. In 2006, we shipped 1,645,000 tons of fabricated steel, an increase of 303,000 tons from 2005. We conduct these activities in facilities located in Texas at Beaumont, Buda, Corpus Christi, Dallas (2), Fort Worth, Harlingen, Houston (3), Melissa, San Marcos, San Antonio, Seguin, Victoria, Waco and Waxahachie; Louisiana at Baton Rouge, Keithville and Slidell; Arkansas at Little Rock, Magnolia, Hope (2) and Springdale; Utah in Brigham City; Florida at Fort Myers, Jacksonville and Starke; Nevada at Fallon; South Carolina at Cayce, Columbia, Eastover, Taylors and West Columbia; in Georgia at Atlanta and Lawrenceville; North Carolina at Gastonia (2); Virginia at Farmville, Fredericksburg and Norfolk; California at Bloomington, Emeryville, Etiwanda, Fontana, Fresno, Rialto, San Bernadino and Stockton; Iowa at Iowa Falls; Arizona at Chandler; Oklahoma at Oklahoma City and Tulsa; New Mexico at Albuquerque; and Mississippi at Lumberton. The Norfolk Virginia facility was acquired in November, 2005 from Hall-Hodges Company. Fabricated steel products are used primarily in the construction of commercial and non-commercial buildings, hospitals, convention centers, industrial plants, power plants, highways, bridges, arenas, stadiums, and dams. Generally, we sell fabricated steel in response to a bid solicitation from a construction contractor or the project owner. Typically, the contractor or owner of the project awards the job based on the competitive prices of the bids and does not individually negotiate with the bidders. Our joist manufacturing operations headquartered in Hope, Arkansas, manufacture steel joists for roof supports. The joist manufacturing operations fabricate joists from steel obtained primarily from our steel group’s minimills at facilities in Hope, Arkansas; Starke, Florida; Cayce, South Carolina; Fallon, Nevada; Iowa Falls, Iowa; and Juarez, Mexico. Our typical joist customer is a construction contractor or large chain store owner. Joists are generally made to order and sales may include custom design, fabrication and painting. We obtain our sales primarily on a competitive bid basis. We also manufacture and sell castellated and cellular steel beams. These beams, recognizable by their hexagonal or circular pattern of voids, permit greater design flexibility in steel construction, especially floor structures. We fabricate these beams at a facility adjacent to our Hope, Arkansas, joist plant. Construction Related Products. We sell and rent construction related products and equipment to concrete installers and other construction businesses. We have 41 locations in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Florida, Colorado, Arkansas, Arizona, Oklahoma and California where we store and sell these products which, with the exception of a small portion of steel products, are purchased for resale from unrelated suppliers. The facilities in Arkansas, Arizona, Oklahoma and California were acquired during the fiscal year in a series of asset acquisitions. 6 Table of Contents Heat Treating Operation. Our heat treating operation is Allegheny Heat Treating, Inc., with locations in Chicora, Pennsylvania and Struthers, Ohio. Allegheny Heat Treating works closely with our Alabama minimill and other steel mills that sell specialized heat-treated steel for customer specific use. Such steel is primarily used in original or special equipment manufacturing. We have annual operating capacity in our heat treating operation of approximately 30,000 tons. We also operate a warehousing and distribution operation known as Impact Metals which distributes not only the specialized products provided by Allegheny Heat Treating but also similar products obtained from other similar specialty processors located around the world. During the year we commenced renovation of an existing building which we purchased in Pell City, Alabama, near Birmingham, where we intend to construct a new heat treating facility. Railroad Salvage and Dismantling. We also operate a business that purchases and removes rail and other materials from abandoned railroads. Most of the salvaged rail is utilized by our Arkansas minimill. Backlog in our domestic fabrication segment was approximately $673.5 million at August 31, 2006 as compared to $624.0 million at August 31, 2005. No single customer purchases 10% or more of our domestic fabrication segment’s production. RECYCLING SEGMENT Our recycling segment processes scrap metals for use as a raw material by manufacturers of new metal products. This segment operates approximately thirty nine scrap metal processing facilities not including the ten scrap metal recycling facilities operated as part of our domestic mills segment. In June, 2006 we closed the acquisition of substantially all the operating assets of Yonack Iron & Metal Co. and related companies adding six locations including four in Texas and one each in Arkansas and Oklahoma to the segment’s network of scrap metals facilities. With this expansion the segment now operates from 20 locations in Texas, 8 in Florida, 3 in Oklahoma, 2 in Missouri,and Tennessee and one each in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, and North Carolina. We purchase ferrous and nonferrous scrap metals, processed and unprocessed, from a variety of sources in a variety of forms for our metals recycling plants. Sources of metal for recycling include manufacturing and industrial plants, metal fabrication plants, electric utilities, machine shops, factories, railroads, refineries, shipyards, ordinance depots, demolition businesses, automobile salvage and wrecking firms. Collectively, small scrap metal collection firms are a major supplier. In 2006, our scrap metal recycling segment’s plants processed and shipped approximately 2,474,000 tons of scrap metal compared to 2,163,000 tons in 2005. Ferrous scrap metals comprised the largest tonnage of metals recycled at approximately 2,147,000 tons, an increase of approximately 276,000 tons as compared to 2005. We shipped approximately 327,000 tons of nonferrous scrap metals, primarily aluminum, copper and stainless steel, an increase of approximately 35,000 tons as compared to 2005. With the exception of precious metals, our scrap metal recycling plants recycle and process practically all types of metal. In addition ten scrap metal recycling facilities operated by our domestic mills segment processed and shipped approximately 1,218,000 tons of primarily ferrous scrap metal during 2006. Our scrap metal recycling plants consist of an office and warehouse building equipped with specialized equipment for processing both ferrous and nonferrous metal. A typical recycling plant also includes several acres of land that we use for receiving, sorting, processing and storing metals. Several of our scrap metal recycling plants use a small portion of their site or a nearby location to display and sell metal products that may be reused for their original purpose without further processing. We equip our larger plants with scales, shears, baling presses, briquetting machines, conveyors and magnetic separators which enable these plants to efficiently process large volumes of scrap metals. Two plants have extensive equipment that segregates metallic content from large quantities of insulated wire. To facilitate processing, shipping and receiving, we equip our ferrous metal processing centers with either presses, shredders or hydraulic shears to prepare and compress scrap metal for easier handling. Cranes are utilized to handle scrap metals for processing and to load material for shipment. Many facilities have rail access as ferrous scrap is primarily shipped by open gondola railcar or barge when water access is available. We operate five large shredding machines, four in Texas with one in Florida, capable of pulverizing obsolete automobiles or other sources of scrap metal. We have three additional shredders, two operated by our domestic mills segment and the third by our CMCZ segment. We sell scrap metals to steel mills and foundries, aluminum sheet and ingot manufacturers, brass and bronze ingot makers, copper refineries and mills, secondary lead smelters, specialty steel mills, high temperature alloy manufacturers and other consumers. Ferrous scrap metal is the primary raw material for electric arc furnaces such as those operated by our steel minimills. Some minimills periodically supplement purchases of ferrous scrap metal with direct reduced iron and pig iron for certain product lines. Our Dallas 7 Table of Contents office coordinates the sales of scrap metals from our scrap metal processing plants to our customers. We negotiate export sales through our network of foreign offices as well as our Dallas office. We do not purchase a material amount of scrap metal from one source. One customer represented 10% of our recycling segment’s revenues. Our recycling segment competes with other scrap metals processors and primary nonferrous metals producers, both domestic and foreign, for sales of nonferrous materials. Consumers of nonferrous scrap metals frequently can utilize primary or “virgin” ingot processed by mining companies instead of nonferrous scrap metals. The prices of nonferrous scrap metals are closely related to but generally less than, the prices of primary or “virgin” ingot. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Our marketing and distribution segment buys and sells primary and secondary metals, fabricated metals and other industrial products. During the past year, our marketing and distribution segment sold approximately 2.9 million tons of steel products. We market and distribute these products through a network of offices, processing facilities and joint venture offices located around the world. We purchase steel, nonferrous metals including copper and aluminum coil, sheet and tubing, chemicals, industrial minerals, ores, metal concentrates and ferroalloys from producers in domestic and foreign markets. Occasionally, we purchase these materials from suppliers, such as trading companies or industrial consumers, who have a surplus of these materials. We utilize long-term contracts, spot market purchases and trading or barter transactions to purchase materials. To obtain favorable long term supply agreements we occasionally offer assistance to producers by arranging structured finance transactions to suit their objectives. We sell our products to customers, primarily manufacturers, in the steel, nonferrous metals, metal fabrication, chemical, refractory and transportation businesses. We sell directly to our customers through and with the assistance of our offices in Irving, Texas; Fort Lee, New Jersey; Arcadia, California; Mexico City, Mexico; Sydney, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide, Australia; Singapore; Zug, Switzerland; Sandbach, United Kingdom; Kohl, Germany, and Hong Kong, Beijing, Guangzhou and Shanghai China. We have a representative office in Moscow. We have agents or joint venture partners in additional offices located in significant international markets. Our network of offices shares information regarding demand for our materials, assists with negotiation and performance of contracts and other services for our customers, and identifies and maintains relationships with our sources of supply. In most transactions, we act as principal by taking title and ownership of the products. We are also designated as a marketing representative, sometimes exclusively, by product suppliers. We utilize agents when appropriate, and on occasion we act as a broker for these products. We buy and sell these products in almost all major markets throughout the world where trade by American-owned companies is permitted. We market physical products as compared to companies that trade commodity futures contracts and frequently do not take delivery of the commodity. As a result of sophisticated global communications, our customers and suppliers often have easy access to quoted market prices, although such price quotes are not always indicative of actual transaction prices. Therefore, to distinguish ourselves we focus on creative service functions for both sellers and buyers. Our services include actual physical market pricing and trend information, as compared to more speculative metal exchange futures market information, technical information and assistance, financing, transportation and shipping (including chartering of vessels), storage, warehousing, just-in-time delivery, insurance, hedging and the ability to consolidate smaller purchases and sales into larger, more cost efficient transactions. We attempt to limit exposure to price fluctuations by offsetting purchases with concurrent sales. We also enter into currency exchange contracts as economic hedges of sales and purchase commitments denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar or, if the transaction involves our Australian, United Kingdom or German subsidiaries, their local currency. We do not, as a matter of policy, speculate on changes in the markets. We have previously made investments to acquire approximately 11% of the outstanding stock of a Czech Republic steel mill and 24% of a Belgium business that processes and pickles hot rolled steel coil. These investments allow us to expand our marketing and distribution activities. Our Australian operations have eleven warehousing facilities for just-in-time delivery of steel and industrial products. Our Coil Steels Group is the third largest distributor of steel sheet and coil products in Australia and has processing facilities in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne and warehouses in Adelaide, Perth, Darwin and Toowoomba. In March, 2006 we acquired Southmet Pty Ltd., a plate and long products processor in Adelaide expanding our Australian operations. 8 Table of Contents SEASONALITY Many of our domestic mills, CMCZ and domestic fabrication segments’ customers are in the construction business. Due to the increase in construction during the spring and summer months, our sales in these segments are generally higher in the third and fourth quarters than in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year. COMPETITION Our domestic mills compete with regional, national and foreign manufacturers of steel and copper. We do not produce a significant percentage of the total domestic output of most of our products. However, we are considered a substantial supplier in the markets near our facilities. We compete primarily on the price and quality of our products and our service. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Industry”. We believe that CMCZ is the largest supplier of wire rod and the second largest supplier of reinforcing bar in the Polish market. It competes with several large manufacturers of rebar and wire rod in central and eastern Europe, primarily on the basis of price and product availability. Our domestic fabrication businesses compete with regional and national suppliers. We believe that we are the largest fabricator of reinforcing bar in the United States and our joist facilities are the second largest manufacturer of joists in the United States, although significantly smaller than the largest joist supplier. We believe that we are the largest manufacturer of steel fence posts in the United States. We believe our recycling segment is one of the largest entities engaged in the recycling of nonferrous scrap metals in the United States. We are also a major regional processor of ferrous scrap metal. The scrap metal recycling business is subject to cyclical fluctuations based upon the availability and price of unprocessed scrap metal and the demand for steel and nonferrous metals. Buying prices and service to scrap suppliers and generators are the principal competitive factors for the segment. The price offered for scrap metal is the principal competitive factor in acquiring material from smaller scrap metals collection firms while industrial generators of scrap metal may also consider the importance of other factors such as supplying appropriate collection containers, timely removal, reliable documentation including accurate and detailed purchase records with customized reports, the ability to service multiple locations, insurance coverage, and the buyer’s financial strength. Our marketing and distribution business is highly competitive. Our products in the marketing and distribution segment are standard commodity items. We compete primarily on the price, quality and reliability of our products, our financing alternatives and our additional services. In this segment, we compete with other domestic and foreign trading companies, some of which are larger and may have access to greater financial resources. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to pursue business without being restricted by the laws of the United States. We also compete with industrial consumers, who purchase directly from suppliers, and importers and manufacturers of semi-finished ferrous and nonferrous products. Our Coil Steels Group, a distributor of steel sheet and coil in Australia, is believed to be the third largest distributor of those products in Australia. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS A significant factor in our business is our compliance with environmental laws and regulations. See “Risk Factors- Risks Related to Our Industry” below. Compliance with and changes in various environmental requirements and environmental risks applicable to our industry may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Occasionally, we may be required to clean up or take certain remediation action with regard to sites we formerly used in our operations. We may also be required to pay for a portion of the costs of clean up or remediation at sites we never owned or on which we never operated if we are found to have treated or disposed of hazardous substances on the sites. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has named us a potentially responsible party or PRP, at several federal Superfund sites. The EPA alleges that we and other PRP scrap metal suppliers are responsible for the cleanup of those sites solely because we sold scrap metal to unrelated manufacturers for recycling as a raw material in the manufacturing of new products. We contend that an arms length sale of valuable scrap metal for use as a raw material in a manufacturing process that we have no control of should not constitute “an arrangement for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances” as defined under Federal law. In 2000 the Superfund Recycling Equity Act was signed into law which, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, provides legitimate sellers of scrap metal for recycling with some relief from Superfund liability under Federal law. Despite Congress’ clarification of the intent of the Federal law, some state laws and environmental agencies still seek to impose such liability. We believe efforts to impose such liability are contrary to 9 Table of Contents public policy objectives and legislation encouraging recycling and promoting the use of recycled materials and we continue to support clarification of state laws and regulations consistent with Congress’s action. New Federal, state and local laws, regulations and the varying interpretations of such laws by regulatory agencies and the judiciary impact how much money we spend on environmental compliance. In addition, uncertainty regarding adequate control levels, testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions impact our future expenditures in order to comply with environmental requirements. We cannot predict the total amount of capital expenditures or increases in operating costs or other expenses that may be required as a result of environmental compliance. We also do not know if we can pass such costs on to our customers through product price increases. During 2006, we incurred environmental costs including disposal, permits, license fees, tests, studies, remediation, consultant fees and environmental personnel expense of approximately $18.6 million. In addition, we estimate that we spent approximately $6.2 million during 2006 on capital expenditures for environmental projects. We believe that our facilities are in material compliance with currently applicable environmental laws and regulations. We anticipate capital expenditures for new environmental control facilities during 2007 of approximately $11.7 million. EMPLOYEES As of September 2006, we had approximately 11,734 employees. Our domestic mills segment employed approximately 2,439 people, our CMCZ segment employed approximately 2,041 people, and our fabrication segment employed approximately 5,108 people. Our recycling segment employed 1,377 people, and our marketing and distribution segment employed 668 people. We have 53 employees in general corporate management and administration and 48 employees who provide services to our divisions and subsidiaries. Production employees at one metals recycling plant and two fabrication facilities are represented by unions for collective bargaining purposes. Approximately one half of CMCZ’s employees are represented by unions. We believe that our labor relations are generally good to excellent and our work force is highly motivated. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before making an investment in our company, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN CHINA’S STEEL CONSUMPTION OR INCREASED CHINESE STEEL PRODUCTION SUBSTANTIALLY EXCEEDING LOCAL DEMAND MAY RESULT IN CHINA BECOMING A LARGE EXPORTER OF STEEL AND DISRUPTION TO WORLD STEEL MARKETS. Chinese economic expansion has affected the availability and heightened the volatility of many commodities that we market and use in our manufacturing process, including steel. It is reported that in calendar year 2005 China became a net exporter of steel, albeit only by 600,000 tons out of a total estimated production capacity of 349 million tons. China now accounts for approximately one third of the world’s raw steel production and one third of the world’s steel consumption. Expansions and contractions in China’s economy can have major effects on the pricing of not only the price of our finished steel products but also many commodities that affect us such as secondary metals, energy, marine freight rates, steel making supplies such as ferroalloys and graphite electrodes and materials we market such as iron ore and coke. Should Chinese demand weaken or Chinese steel production be allowed to expand unchecked to the point that it significantly exceeds the country’s consumption, prices for many of the products that we both sell to and export from China may fall causing erosion in our gross margins and subjecting us to possible renegotiation of contracts or increases in bad debts. Significant exports from China of steel in the product lines we manufacture in the United States would cause selling prices in the United States to decline and negatively impact our gross margins. RAPID AND SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE PRICE OF METALS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR INDUSTRY. Prices for most metals in which we deal have experienced large increases and increased volatility in recent years. With a few exceptions, our markets have been able to adapt to this changing pricing environment. However, should metals prices experience 10 Table of Contents further unanticipated and even more substantial rapid increases or be subjected to sudden substantial decreases it would impact us in several ways. Some of our operations, the domestic fabrication segment for example, may benefit from rapidly decreasing steel prices as their material cost decline while others, such as our domestic mill and CMCZ segments, would likely experience reduced margins until prices stabilized. Sudden increases could have the opposite effect. Overall we believe that rapid substantial price changes, should they occur, will not be to our industry’s benefit. Our customer and supplier base would be impacted due to uncertainty as to future prices. A reluctance to purchase inventory in the face of extreme price decreases or sell quickly during a period of rapid price increases would likely reduce our volume of business. Marginal industry participants or speculators may attempt to participate to an unhealthy extent during a period of rapid price escalation with a substantial risk of contract default should prices suddenly reverse. Risks of default in contract performance by customers or suppliers as well as a increased risk of bad debts and customer credit exposure would increase during periods of rapid and substantial price changes. EXCESS CAPACITY IN OUR INDUSTRY COULD INCREASE THE LEVEL OF STEEL IMPORTS INTO THE U.S. RESULTING IN LOWER DOMESTIC PRICES WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES, MARGINS AND PROFITABILITY. Steel-making capacity exceeds demand for steel products in some countries. Rather than reducing employment by rationalizing capacity with consumption, steel manufacturers in these countries (often with local government assistance or subsidies in various forms) have traditionally periodically exported steel at prices that are significantly below their home market prices and which may not reflect their costs of production or capital. This supply of imports can decrease the sensitivity of domestic steel prices to increases in demand or our ability to recover increased manufacturing costs. OUR INDUSTRY IS AFFECTED BY CYCLICAL AND REGIONAL ECONOMIC FACTORS INCLUDING THE RISK OF A SLOW DOWN IN ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OR RECESSION. Many of our products are commodities subject to cyclical fluctuations in supply and demand in metal consuming industries. Metals industries have historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolong periods of economic downturn. A recession in either the United States or the European Union or the public perception that a slowdown or recession may occur, could decrease the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Our overall financial results will be dependent substantially upon the extent to which economic conditions in both the United States and the European Union remain strong. Overall economic activity has historically been susceptible to declines following periods of rapidly increased energy costs or interest rates. A slower expansion or recession will adversely affect our financial results. Our geographic concentration in the southern and southwestern United States as well as Central Europe, Australia and China exposes us to the local market conditions in these regions. Economic downturns in these areas or decisions by governments that have an impact on the level and pace of overall economic activity could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our business supports cyclical industries such as commercial construction, energy, service center, petrochemical and original equipment manufacturing. These industries may experience significant fluctuations in demand for our products based on economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and decisions by governments to fund infrastructure projects such as highways, schools, energy plants and airports. Many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result of the volatility in the industries we serve, we may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our level of sales or profitability. If the industries we serve suffer a prolonged downturn, then our business may be adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means that our results of operations are promptly affected by short-term economic fluctuations. COMPLIANCE WITH AND CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL AND REMEDIATION REQUIREMENTS COULD RESULT IN SUSTANTIALLY INCREASED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING COSTS. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We are subject to local, state, federal and international environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, waste disposal, air emissions, waste and storm water effluent and disposal and employee health. Our manufacturing and recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as industrial waste or 11 Table of Contents hazardous waste. For example, our minimills generate electric arc furnace dust (EAF dust), which the EPA, and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste. EAF dust requires special handling, recycling or disposal. In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our scrap metal recycling facilities are automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of unrecyclable material known as shredder fluff. After the segregation of ferrous and saleable non-ferrous metals, shredder fluff remains. We, along with others in the recycling industry, interpret Federal regulations to require shredder fluff to meet certain criteria and pass a toxic leaching test to avoid classification as a hazardous waste. We also endeavor to remove hazardous contaminants from the feed material prior to shredding. As a result, we believe the shredder fluff we generate is not normally considered or properly classified as hazardous waste. If the laws, regulations or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder fluff, we may incur additional significant expenditures. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot predict whether such costs can be passed on to customers through product price increases. Competitors in various regions or countries where environmental regulation might not be so restrictive, subject to different interpretation or generally not enforced may enjoy a competitive advantage. We may also be required to conduct additional clean up at sites where we have already participated in remediation efforts or to take remediation action with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations. We may be required to pay for a portion of the costs of clean up or remediation at sites we never owned or on which we never operated if we are found to have arranged for treatment or disposal of hazardous substances on the sites. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE UNITED STATES DOLLAR RELATIVE TO OTHER CURRENCIES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business. In particular major changes in the rate of exchange of China’s Renminbi or substantial increases in the value of the Euro to the U.S. Dollar could negatively impact our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported metal products less expensive, resulting in more imports of steel products into the U.S. by our foreign competitors. Past economic difficulties in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America have resulted in lower local demand for steel products and have encouraged greater steel exports to the U.S. at depressed prices. As a result, our products which are made in the U.S., may become relatively more expensive as compared to imported steel, which has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our sales, revenues and profitability. A strong U.S. dollar hampers our international marketing and distribution business. Weak local currencies limit the amount of U.S. dollar denominated products that we can import for our international operations and limits our ability to be competitive against local producers selling in local currencies. OPERATING INTERNATIONALLY CARRIES RISKS AND UNCERTANTIES WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY EFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We have our heaviest concentration of manufacturing operations in the United States but also have significant facilities in Europe and Australia. Our marketing and trading offices are located in most major markets of the world with our suppliers and our customers located throughout the world. Our marketing and distribution segment relies on substantial international shipments of materials and products in the ordinary course of its business. Our stability, growth and profitability are subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business internationally in addition to the currency exchange risk discussed above, including: • Political, military, terrorist or major pandemic events; • Legal and regulatory requirements or limitations imposed by foreign governments (particularly those with significant steel consumption or steel related production including China, Brazil, Russia and India) including quotas, tariffs or other protectionist trade barriers, adverse tax law changes, nationalization or currency restrictions; 12 Table of Contents • Disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs compliance or government agencies; and • Potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations. WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL GAS FOR OUR MINIMILL OPERATIONS. DISRUPTIONS IN DELIVERY OR SUBSTANTIAL INCREASES IN ENERGY COSTS, INCLUDING CRUDE OIL PRICES, COULD ADVERSLY EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Minimills melt steel scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to heat steel billets for rolling into finished products. As large consumers of electricity and gas, often the largest in the geographic area where our minimills are located, we must have dependable delivery of electricity and natural gas in order to operate. Accordingly, we are at risk in the event of an energy disruption. Prolonged black-outs or brown-outs or disruptions caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes would substantially disrupt our production. While we have not suffered prolonged production delays due to our inability to access electricity or natural gas several of our competitors have experienced such occurrences. Prolonged substantial increases in energy costs would have an adverse effect on the costs of operating our minimills and would negatively impact our gross margins unless we were able to fully pass through the additional expense. Our finished steel products are typically delivered by truck. Rapid increases in the price of fuel attributable to increases in crude oil prices will have a negative impact on our costs and many of our customers financial results which could result in reduced margins and declining demand for our products. Rapid increases in fuel costs may also negatively impact our ability to charter ships for international deliveries at anticipated freight rates thereby decreasing our margins on those transactions or causing our customers to look for alternative sources. IF WE LOSE THE SERVICES OF KEY EMPLOYEES WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR OPERATIONS AND MEET OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES. Our future success depends, in large part, on the continued service of our officers and other key employees and our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. These employees are integral to our success based on their expertise and knowledge of our business and products. We compete for such personnel with other companies including public and private company competitors who may periodically offer more favorable terms of employment. While we have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, we typically do not have employment agreements with other key employees. The loss or interruption of the services of a number of our key employees would reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations due to the fact that we may not be able to find in a timely manner, appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. WE HAVE INITIATED IMPLEMENTATION OF AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SYSTEM WHICH, IF NOT EFFECTIVELY MANAGED AND CONTROLLED, COULD THREATEN THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OPERATION AND FINANCIAL GOALS. Planning and design of a new enterprise resource planning system commenced in 2006 and will continue through 2007 with phased implementation scheduled commencing in 2008. There are risks that this effort may not result in a successful implementation resulting in resources being inappropriately diverted, untimely completion and substantial cost overruns. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY COMPETING WITH COMPANIES THAT HAVE A LOWER COST STRUCTURE THAN OURS. We compete with regional, national and foreign manufacturers and traders. Some of these competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and more diverse businesses than us. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard for the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Furthermore, over the past several years, many integrated domestic steel producers and scrap metal recyclers have entered bankruptcy proceedings. The companies that reorganize and emerge from bankruptcy may have a more competitive capital cost structures. In addition, asset sales by these companies during the reorganization process tended to be at depressed prices, enabling some purchasers to acquire greater capacity at a lower cost. OUR STEEL MINIMILL BUSINESS REQUIRES CONTINUOUS CAPITAL INVESTMENTS THAT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN. We must make regular substantial capital investments in our steel minimills to lower production costs and remain competitive. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient internally generated cash or acceptable external financing to make necessary substantial capital expenditures in the future. The availability of external financing depends on many factors outside of our control, including capital market conditions and the overall performance of the economy. If funding is insufficient, we may be unable to develop or enhance our minimills, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to competitive pressures. 13 Table of Contents SCRAP AND OTHER SUPPLIES FOR OUR BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRICE FLUCTUATIONS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We depend on ferrous scrap, the primary feedstock for our steel minimills and other supplies such as graphite electrodes and ferroalloys for our steel minimill operations. Although we believe that the supply of scrap is adequate to meet future needs, the price of scrap and other supplies have historically been subject to significant fluctuation. Our future profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to pass on to our customers increased raw material and supplies costs. We may not be able to adjust our product prices to recover the costs of rapid increases in material prices, especially over the short-term and in our domestic fabrication segment’s fixed price fabrication contracts. The raw material used in manufacturing copper tubing is copper scrap, supplemented occasionally by virgin copper ingot. Copper scrap has generally been readily available, and a small portion of our copper scrap comes from our metal recycling yards. However, copper scrap is subject to rapid price fluctuations related to the price and supply of virgin copper. Price increases for high quality copper scrap could adversely affect our business. Finally, our Arkansas mill does not have melting capacity, so it is dependent on an adequate supply of competitively priced used rail. The availability of used rail fluctuates with the pace of railroad abandonments, rail replacement by railroads in the United States and abroad and demand for used rail from other domestic and foreign rail rerolling mills. Price increases for used rail could adversely affect our business. UNEXPECTED EQUIPMENT FAILURES MAY LEAD TO PRODUCTION CURTAILMENTS OR SHUTDOWNS. Interruptions in our production capabilities will adversely affect our production costs, steel available for sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of steel-making equipment, such as our furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. HEDGING TRANSACTIONS MAY LIMIT OUR POTENTIAL GAINS OR EXPOSE US TO LOSS. Our product lines and worldwide operations expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, commodity prices and interest rates. As part of our risk management program, we use financial instruments, including commodity futures or forwards, foreign currency exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. While intended to reduce the effects of the fluctuations, these transactions may limit our potential gains or expose us to loss. Should our counterparties to such transactions or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered, such as the London Metal Exchange, fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from these transactions. We enter into the foreign currency exchange forwards as economic hedges of trade commitments or anticipated commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency to mitigate the effects of changes in currency rates. Although we do not enter into these instruments for trading purposes or speculation, and although our management believes all of these instruments are economically effective as hedges of underlying physical transactions, these foreign exchange commitments are dependent on timely performance by our counterparties. Their failure to perform could result in our having to close these hedges without the anticipated underlying transaction and could result in losses if foreign currency exchange rates have changed. WE ARE INVOLVED AND MAY IN THE FUTURE BECOME INVOLVED IN VARIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS THAT MAY RESULT IN FINES, PENALTIES OR JUDGMENTS BEING ASSESSED AGAINST US OR LIABILITY IMPOSED UPON US WHICH WE CANNOT PRESENTLY ESTIMATE OR REASONABLY FORESEE AND WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR EARNINGS AND CASH FLOWS. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, called CERCLA, or similar state statutes, we may have obligations to conduct investigation and remediation activities associated with alleged releases of hazardous substances or to reimburse the EPA (or state agencies as applicable) for such activities and to pay for natural resource damages associated with alleged releases. We have been named a potentially responsible party at several federal and state Superfund sites because the EPA or an equivalent state agency contends that we and other potentially responsible scrap metal suppliers are liable for the cleanup of those sites as a result of having sold scrap metal to unrelated manufacturers for recycling as a raw material in the manufacture of new products. We are involved in litigation or administrative proceedings with regard to several of these sites in which 14 Table of Contents we are contesting, or at the appropriate time may contest, our liability at the sites. In addition, we have received information requests with regard to other sites which may be under consideration by the EPA as potential CERCLA sites. Although we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss in connection with various environmental matters or the effect on our consolidated financial position, we make accruals as warranted. Due to inherent uncertainties, including evolving remediation technology, changing regulations, possible third-party contributions, the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors, the amounts we accrue could vary significantly from the amounts we ultimately are required to pay. AN INABILITY TO FULLY AND EFFECTIVELY INTEGRATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS WHILE DIVERTING MANAGEMENT’S ATTENTION FROM OUR CORE OPERATIONS, AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL REALIZE THEIR FULL BENEFITS OR SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR COMBINED COMPANY, AND FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY RESULT IN DILUTIVE EQUITY ISSUANCES OR INCREASES IN DEBT. As part of our ongoing business strategy we regularly evaluate and may pursue acquisitions of and investments in complementary companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully or successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, we may incur costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, management’s attention may be diverted from core operations which could harm our ability to timely meet the needs of our customers and damage our relationships with those customers. To finance future acquisitions, we may need to raise funds either by issuing equity securities or incurring or assuming debt. If we incur additional debt, the related interest expense may significantly reduce our profitability. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We are involved in various litigation matters, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters and construction contract disputes. The nature of our operations also expose us to possible litigation claims in the future. Although we make every effort to avoid litigation, these matters are not totally within our control. We will contest these matters vigorously and have made insurance claims where appropriate, but because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. These matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Although we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss in connection with litigation matters, we make accruals as warranted. However, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from the amounts we actually pay, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors. SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS MAY DEFAULT ON THE DEBTS THEY OWE TO US. Economic conditions are not consistent in all the markets we serve. Some areas are still weak, and our customers may struggle to meet their obligations, especially if a significant customer of theirs defaults. We regularly maintain a substantial amount of accounts receivable – at year end over $1.1 billion. We charged off accounts receivable net of recoveries of $3.8 million during the past fiscal year and at year end our allowance for collection losses was $16 million. Other factors such as management and accounting irregularities have forced some companies into bankruptcy. A weakening of the general economy and corporate failures could result in higher bad debt costs. In certain markets we have experienced a consolidation among those entities to whom we sell. This consolidation, along with substantially higher metals and other commodity prices, has resulted in an increased credit risk spread among fewer customers without a corresponding strengthening of their financial status. Although we have expanded our use of credit insurance for accounts receivable in our marketing and distribution segment and require letters of credit from reputable financial institutions in many international sales transactions, the majority of our receivables in our other segments are considered to be open account uninsured accounts receivable. CREDIT RATINGS AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING AND THE COST OF SUCH FINANCING. Credit ratings affect our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing. Our commercial paper program is ranked in the second highest category by Moody’s Investors Service (P-2) and Standard & Poor’s Corporation (A-2). Our senior unsecured debt is investment grade rated by Standard & Poor’s Corporation (BBB) and Moody’s Investors Service (Baa2). In determining our credit ratings, the rating agencies consider a number of both quantitative and qualitative factors. These factors include earnings, fixed charges such as interest, cash flows, total debt outstanding, off balance sheet obligations and other commitments, total capitalization 15 Table of Contents and various ratios calculated from these factors. The rating agencies also consider predictability of cash flows, business strategy and diversity, industry conditions and contingencies. Lower ratings on our commercial paper program or our senior unsecured debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing and will increase the cost of the financing that we do obtain. THE AGREEMENTS GOVERNING THE NOTES AND OUR OTHER DEBT CONTAIN FINANCIAL COVENANTS AND IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON OUR BUSINESS. The indenture governing our 6.80% notes due 2007, 6.75% notes due 2009 and 5.625% notes due 2013 contains restrictions on our ability to create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions and consolidate or merge. In addition, our credit facility contains covenants that place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: — create liens; — enter into transactions with affiliates; — sell assets; — in the case of some of our subsidiaries, guarantee debt; and — consolidate or merge. Our credit facility also requires that we meet certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum debt to capitalization and interest coverage ratios. Although the debt owed by CMCZ under a five-year term note is without recourse to Commercial Metals Company, our Swiss subsidiary that owns the CMCZ shares or any other of our subsidiaries, the note does contain certain covenants including minimum debt to EBITDA, debt to equity and tangible net worth requirements (as defined only by reference to CMCZ’s financial statements). Other agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business that are similar to, or in addition to, the covenants under our existing agreements. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the notes or under our other debt agreements. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we were unable to repay debt to our secured lenders if we incur secured debt in the future, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the notes. OUR SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS MUST BE AUDITED ANNUALLY AND THE OCCURRENCE OF A MATERIAL WEAKNESS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS REPUTATION, CREDIT RATINGS AND PARTICIPATION IN CAPITAL MARKETS Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act management must now assess the design and functioning of our system of financial internal control. Our registered independent accountants must then certify such representation. Discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, may have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence may discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, may cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs, and may affect how our stock trades. This may in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 