ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThere are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRYOUR INDUSTRY IS VULNERABLE TO GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, INCLUDING THE SLOW RECOVERY FROM THE RECENT RECESSION AND THE RISK OF A RECESSION RELAPSE.Our financial results are substantially dependent upon the overall economic conditions in the United States and the European Union. The sluggish pace of recovery from the deep global recession that began in the United States in December 2007 and officially ended in June 2009 has continued to have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and, consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, uncertainties in Europe regarding the financial sector and sovereign debt and the potential impact on banks in other regions of the world has continued to weigh on global and domestic growth. Metals industries have historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn. Likewise the pace of construction has historically slowed significantly during economic downturns. Our geographic concentration in the southern and southwestern United States as well as Central Europe, Australia, China, and the Middle East exposes us to the local market conditions in these regions. Economic downturns in these areas or decisions by governments that have an impact on the level and pace of overall economic activity in a particular region could also adversely affect our sales and profitability.10Although we believe that the long-term prospectus for the steel industry remain bright, we are unable to predict the duration of the depressed economic conditions that are contributing to reduced demand for our products. Future economic downturns or a prolonged period of slow growth or economic stagnation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.OUR INDUSTRY IS CYCLICAL AND PROLONGED PERIODS OF SLOW ECONOMIC GROWTH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.Our business supports cyclical industries such as commercial, residential and government construction, energy, metals service center, petrochemical and original equipment manufacturing. We may experience significant fluctuations in demand for our products from these industries based on economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and decisions by governments to fund infrastructure projects such as highways, schools, energy plants and airports. As a result of the volatility in the industries we serve, we may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our level of sales or profitability. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if the industries we serve suffer a prolonged downturn or anemic growth. Although the residential housing market is not a significant direct factor in our business, related commercial and infrastructure construction activities, such as shopping centers, schools and roads, could be impacted by a prolonged slump in new housing construction.Our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means that our business, results of operations and financial condition are promptly affected by short-term economic fluctuations.THE SCRAP METAL RECYCLING INDUSTRY HAS HISTORICALLY BEEN, AND IS EXPECTED TO REMAIN, HIGHLY CYCLICAL. A PROLONGED PERIOD OF LOW SCRAP PRICES OR A FALL IN SCRAP METAL PRICES, COULD RESULT IN THE WEAKENING OF INBOUND SCRAP FLOWS AND THEREBY REDUCED OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN, PROCESS AND SELL RECYCLED MATERIALS AND THIS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR METALS RECYCLING OPERATIONS' RESULTS. Scrap metal prices are volatile and operating results within the metals recycling industry, in general, have historically been cyclical, and are expected to remain, highly cyclical in nature. Similarly, but not necessarily paralleling the price fluctuations in the steel business, the purchase prices for automobile bodies and various other grades of obsolete and industrial scrap, as well as the selling prices for processed and recycled scrap metals we utilize in our own manufacturing process or we resell to others through our metals recycling operations, are also highly volatile. As a metals recycler, we may attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices by adjusting the scrap metal purchase prices we pay to others, but our ability to do this may be limited by competitive or other factors during periods of low scrap prices, when inbound scrap flow may slow considerably, as scrap generators hold onto their scrap in the hope of getting higher prices later; conversely, increased foreign demand for scrap due to economic expansion in countries such as China, India, Brazil, and Turkey can result in an outflow of available domestic scrap as well as higher scrap prices that cannot always be passed on to domestic scrap consumers further reducing the available domestic scrap flows and scrap margins all of which could adversely affect our sales and profitability.A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN CHINA'S STEEL CONSUMPTION OR INCREASED CHINESE STEEL PRODUCTION SUBSTANTIALLY EXCEEDING LOCAL DEMAND MAY RESULT IN CHINA BECOMING A LARGE EXPORTER OF STEEL AND DISRUPTION TO WORLD STEEL MARKETS.Chinese economic expansion has affected the availability and heightened the volatility of many commodities that we market and use in our manufacturing process, including steel. Expansions and contractions in China's economy can have major effects on the price of our finished steel products and many commodities that affect us such as secondary metals, energy, marine freight rates, steel making supplies such as ferroalloys and graphite electrodes, and materials we market, such as iron ore and coke. If Chinese demand weakens or Chinese steel production expands to the point that it significantly exceeds the country's consumption, prices for many of the products that we both sell to and export from China may fall, causing erosion in our gross margins and subjecting us to possible renegotiation of contracts or increases in bad debts. Significant exports from China of steel in the product lines we manufacture would likely cause our selling prices to decline and negatively impact our volumes and gross margins.RAPID AND SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE PRICE OF METALS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.Prices for most metals in which we deal have experienced increased volatility over the last several years, and such increased price volatility impacts us in several ways. Some of our operations, such as our fabrication operations, may benefit from rapidly decreasing steel prices as their material cost for previously contracted fixed price work declines. Others, such as our Americas Mills and International Mill segments, would likely experience reduced margins and may be forced to liquidate high cost inventory at reduced margins or losses until prices stabilize. Sudden increases could have the opposite effect. Overall, we believe that rapid substantial price changes are not to our industry's benefit. Our customer and supplier base would be impacted due to uncertainty as to future prices. A reluctance to purchase inventory in the face of extreme price decreases or to 11sell quickly during a period of rapid price increases would likely reduce our volume of business. Marginal industry participants or speculators may attempt to participate to an unhealthy extent during a period of rapid price escalation with a substantial risk of contract default if prices suddenly reverse. Risks of default in contract performance by customers or suppliers as well as an increased risk of bad debts and customer credit exposure could increase during periods of rapid and substantial price changes.EXCESS CAPACITY IN OUR INDUSTRY COULD INCREASE THE LEVEL OF STEEL IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED STATES, RESULTING IN LOWER DOMESTIC PRICES WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES, MARGINS AND PROFITABILITY.Steel-making capacity exceeds demand for steel products in some countries. Rather than reducing employment by rationalizing capacity with consumption, steel manufacturers in these countries (often with local government assistance or subsidies in various forms) have traditionally periodically exported steel at prices significantly below their home market prices and which may not reflect their costs of production or capital. This supply of imports can decrease the sensitivity of domestic steel prices to increases in demand or decrease our ability to recover our manufacturing costs. The excess capacity may create downward pressure on our steel prices which would adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability.COMPLIANCE WITH AND CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL AND REMEDIATION REQUIREMENTS COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING COSTS.Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, and future laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We are subject to local, state, Federal and international environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, waste disposal, air emissions, waste and storm water effluent and disposal and employee health. New facilities that we may build, especially steel minimills, are required to obtain several environmental permits before significant construction or commencement of operations. Delays in obtaining permits or unanticipated conditions in such permits could delay the project or increase construction costs or operating expenses. Our manufacturing and recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as industrial waste or hazardous waste. For example, our minimills generate electric arc furnace dust (“EAF dust”), which the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste. EAF dust and other industrial waste and hazardous waste require special handling, recycling or disposal.In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our scrap metal recycling facilities are automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hull consists of unrecyclable material known as shredder fluff. After the segregation of ferrous and saleable nonferrous metals, shredder fluff remains. We, along with others in the recycling industry, interpret Federal regulations to require shredder fluff to meet certain criteria and pass a toxic leaching test to avoid classification as a hazardous waste. We also endeavor to remove hazardous contaminants from the feed material prior to shredding. As a result, we believe the shredder fluff we generate is not normally considered or properly classified as hazardous waste. If the laws, regulations or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder fluff or other by-products, we may incur additional significant expenditures.Legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost/benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot predict whether such costs would be able to be passed on to customers through product price increases. Competitors in various regions or countries where environmental regulation is less restrictive, subject to different interpretation or generally not enforced, may enjoy a competitive advantage.We may also be required to conduct additional clean up at sites where we have already participated in remediation efforts or to take remediation action with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations. We may be required to pay for a portion or all of the costs of clean up or remediation at sites we never owned or on which we never operated if we are found to have arranged for treatment or disposal of hazardous substances on the sites. In cases of joint and several liability, we may be obligated to pay a disproportionate share of cleanup costs if other responsible parties are financially insolvent.INCREASED REGULATION ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS COULD IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL COSTS ON BOTH OUR STEELMAKING AND METALS RECYCLING OPERATIONS.The U.S. government and various governmental agencies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change. International treaties or agreements may also result in increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms. Any such regulation regarding climate change and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions could impose significant costs on our steelmaking and metals 12recycling operations and on the operations of our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with current or future laws or regulations concerning and limitations imposed on our operations by virtue of climate change and GHG emissions laws and regulations. The potential costs of “allowances,” “offsets” or “credits” that may be part of potential cap-and-trade programs or similar future regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability (and that of our customers and suppliers) to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. From a medium and long-term perspective, as a result of these regulatory initiatives, we may see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANYPOTENTIAL LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO ACCESS CREDIT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.We could be adversely affected if our banks refused to honor their contract commitments or ceased lending. Events in the global credit markets, including the failure, takeover or rescue by various government entities of major financial institutions, have created uncertainty of credit availability to an extent not experienced in recent decades. Our senior unsecured debt is rated by Standard & Poor's Corporation (BB+) and Moody's Investors Service (Ba2). In determining our credit ratings, the rating agencies consider a number of both quantitative and qualitative factors. These factors include earnings (loss), fixed charges such as interest, cash flows, total debt outstanding, off-balance sheet obligations and other commitments, total capitalization and various ratios calculated from these factors. The rating agencies also consider predictability of cash flows, business strategy and diversity, industry conditions and contingencies. OUR CUSTOMERS' INABILITY TO OBTAIN CREDIT MAY RESULT IN THEIR DEFAULT ON THE DEBTS THEY OWE TO US.If the recent constraints on access to credit continue for a prolonged period, some of our customers may struggle or fail to meet their obligations to pay us, especially if they in turn experience defaults on receivables due from their customers. A continued economic downturn could result in our incurring bad debt costs in excess of our expectations and prior experience. In certain markets, we have experienced a consolidation among those entities to whom we sell. This consolidation, along with higher metals and other commodity prices, has resulted in an increased credit risk spread among fewer customers often without a corresponding strengthening of their financial status. We use credit insurance both in the United States and internationally to mitigate the risk of customer insolvency. However, it is possible that we may not be capable of recovering all of our insured losses if the insurers with whom our accounts receivable are insured experience significant losses threatening their viability. Additionally, credit insurance policies typically have relatively short policy periods and require pre-approval of customers with maximum insured limits established by the customer. If credit insurers incur large losses, the insurance may be more difficult and more costly to secure and may be on less favorable terms. While in many international sales transactions we require letters of credit from financial institutions, which we believe to be financially secure, we may be at risk in the event the financial institution subsequently fails and the customer is unable to pay for the products we sold. A significant amount of our accounts receivable are considered to be open account uninsured accounts receivable. We regularly maintain a substantial amount of accounts receivable ($958.4 million at August 31, 2012). POTENTIAL IMPACT OF OUR CUSTOMERS' NON COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS AND COMMITMENTS.Most consumers of the metals products we sell have been negatively impacted by the recession and the continued slow recovery therefrom. Due to their economic hardship or the contraction in their operations or due to the fact that the prices for many of the products we sell have declined since the customers entered into the contracts with us, some of our customers have sought to renegotiate or cancel their existing purchase commitments. In addition, some of our customers have breached previously agreed upon contracts to buy our products by refusing delivery of the products. Where appropriate, we have and will in the future pursue litigation to recover our damages resulting from customer contract defaults. A large number of our customers defaulting on existing contractual obligations to purchase our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.THE AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR NOTES AND OUR OTHER DEBT CONTAIN FINANCIAL COVENANTS AND IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON OUR BUSINESS.The indenture governing our 5.625% notes due 2013, 6.50% notes due 2017 and 7.35% notes due 2018 contains restrictions on our ability to create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions and consolidate or merge. In addition to these restrictions, our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, enter into transactions with 13affiliates and guarantee the debt of some of our subsidiaries. Our credit facility also requires that we meet certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum debt to capitalization and interest coverage ratios.Other agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business that are similar to, or in addition to, the covenants under our existing agreements. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the notes or under our other debt agreements. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we were unable to repay debt to our secured lenders or if we incur secured debt in the future, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the notes.FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE U.S. DOLLAR RELATIVE TO OTHER CURRENCIES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, major changes in the rate of exchange of China's renminbi or the value of the euro to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported metal products less expensive, resulting in more imports of steel products into the United States by our foreign competitors, while a weak U.S. dollar may have the opposite impact on imports. With the exception of exports of nonferrous scrap metal by our Americas Recycling segment, we have not recently been a significant exporter of metal products from our United States operations. Economic difficulties in some large steel producing regions of the world, resulting in lower local demand for steel products, have historically encouraged greater steel exports to the United States at depressed prices which can be exacerbated by a strong dollar. As a result, our products that are made in the United States may become relatively more expensive as compared to imported steel, which has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.A strong U.S. dollar hampers our international marketing and distribution business. Weak local currencies limit the amount of U.S. dollar denominated products that we can import for our international operations and limit our ability to be competitive against local producers selling in local currencies.OPERATING INTERNATIONALLY CARRIES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.Our foreign operations generated approximately 29% of our 2012 revenue. We have significant facilities in Poland and Australia. Our marketing and trading offices are located in most major markets of the world, and our suppliers and customers are located throughout the world. Our marketing and distribution segment relies on substantial international shipments of materials and products in the ordinary course of its business. Our stability, growth and profitability are subject to a number of risks inherent in doing business internationally in addition to the currency exchange risk discussed above, including:•political, military, terrorist or major pandemic events;•legal and regulatory requirements or limitations imposed by foreign governments (particularly those with significant steel consumption or steel related production including China, Brazil, Russia and India) including quotas, tariffs or other protectionist trade barriers, adverse tax law changes, nationalization or currency restrictions;•disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs compliance or government agencies; and•potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations.These types of events may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL GAS FOR OUR MINIMILL OPERATIONS. DISRUPTIONS IN DELIVERY OR SUBSTANTIAL INCREASES IN ENERGY COSTS, INCLUDING CRUDE OIL PRICES, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.Minimills melt steel scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to heat steel billets for rolling into finished products. As large consumers of electricity and gas, often the largest in the geographic area where our minimills are located, we must have dependable delivery of electricity and natural gas in order to operate. Accordingly, we are at risk in the event of an energy disruption. Prolonged black-outs or brown-outs or disruptions caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes would substantially disrupt our production. While we have not suffered prolonged production delays due to our inability to access electricity or natural gas, several of our competitors have experienced such occurrences. Prolonged substantial increases in 14energy costs would have an adverse effect on the costs of operating our minimills and would negatively impact our gross margins unless we were able to fully pass through the additional expense to our customers. Our finished steel products are typically delivered by truck. Rapid increases in the price of fuel attributable to increases in crude oil prices will increase our costs and adversely affect many of our customers' financial results, which in turn could result in reduced margins and declining demand for our products. Rapid increases in fuel costs may also negatively impact our ability to charter ships for international deliveries at anticipated freight rates, thereby decreasing our margins on those transactions or causing our customers to look for alternative sources.IF WE LOSE THE SERVICES OF KEY EMPLOYEES WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR OPERATIONS AND MEET OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.Our future success depends, in large part, on the continued service of our officers and other key employees and our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. These employees are integral to our success based on their expertise and knowledge of our business and products. We compete for such personnel with other companies, including public and private company competitors who may periodically offer more favorable terms of employment. The loss or interruption of the services of a number of our key employees could reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations due to the fact that we may not be able to find in a timely manner, appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise.WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY COMPETING WITH COMPANIES THAT HAVE A LOWER COST STRUCTURE OR ACCESS TO GREATER FINANCIAL RESOURCES.We compete with regional, national and foreign manufacturers and traders. Consolidation among participants in the steel manufacturing and recycling industries has resulted in fewer competitors but several which are significantly larger than us. Some of our larger competitors have greater financial resources and more diverse businesses than us. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard to certain of the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.OUR MINIMILLS REQUIRE CONTINUOUS CAPITAL INVESTMENTS THAT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN.We must make regular substantial capital investments in our steel minimills to maintain the minimills, lower production costs and remain competitive. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient internally generated cash or acceptable external financing to make necessary substantial capital expenditures in the future. The availability of external financing depends on many factors outside of our control, including capital market conditions and the overall performance of the economy. If funding is insufficient, we may be unable to develop or enhance our minimills, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to competitive pressures.SCRAP AND OTHER SUPPLIES FOR OUR BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PRICE FLUCTUATIONS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.We depend on ferrous scrap, the primary feedstock for our steel minimills, and other supplies such as graphite electrodes and ferroalloys for our steel minimill operations. The price of scrap and other supplies has historically been subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our product prices to recover the costs of rapid increases in material prices, especially over the short-term and in our domestic fabrication segment's fixed price contracts. Our future profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to pass on to our customers increased raw material and supply costs.The raw material used in manufacturing copper tubing is copper scrap, supplemented occasionally by virgin copper ingot. Copper scrap is subject to rapid price fluctuations related to the price and supply of virgin copper. Price increases for high quality copper scrap could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Arkansas mill does not have melting capacity, so it is dependent on an adequate supply of competitively priced used rail. The availability of used rail fluctuates with the pace of railroad abandonments, rail replacement by railroads in the United States and abroad and demand for used rail from other domestic and foreign rail rerolling mills. Price increases for used rail could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.UNEXPECTED EQUIPMENT FAILURES MAY LEAD TO PRODUCTION CURTAILMENTS OR SHUTDOWNS.Interruptions in our production capabilities would adversely affect our production costs, steel available for sales and earnings for the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of steel-making equipment, such as our furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, 15explosions or violent weather conditions.COMPETITION FROM OTHER MATERIALS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum and plastics (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass and wood. Increased use of or additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products.HEDGING TRANSACTIONS MAY EXPOSE US TO LOSSES OR LIMIT OUR POTENTIAL GAINS.Our product lines and worldwide operations expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. As part of our risk management program, we use financial instruments, including metals commodity futures, natural gas forward contracts, freight forward contracts, foreign currency exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts. While intended to reduce the effects of the fluctuations, these transactions may limit our potential gains or expose us to losses. If our counterparties to such transactions or the sponsors of the exchanges through which these transactions are offered, such as the London Metal Exchange, fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from these transactions.We enter into the foreign currency exchange forward contracts as economic hedges of trade commitments or anticipated commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency to mitigate the effects of changes in currency rates. These foreign exchange commitments are dependent on timely performance by our counterparties. Their failure to perform could result in our having to close these hedges without the anticipated underlying transaction and could result in losses if foreign currency exchange rates have changed.WE ARE INVOLVED AND MAY IN THE FUTURE BECOME INVOLVED IN VARIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS THAT MAY RESULT IN FINES, PENALTIES OR JUDGMENTS BEING ASSESSED AGAINST US OR LIABILITY IMPOSED UPON US WHICH WE CANNOT PRESENTLY ESTIMATE OR REASONABLY FORESEE AND WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS.Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, called CERCLA or Superfund, or similar state statutes, we may have obligations to conduct investigation and remediation activities associated with alleged releases of hazardous substances or to reimburse the EPA (or state agencies as applicable) for such activities and to pay for natural resource damages associated with alleged releases. We have been named a potentially responsible party at several Federal and state Superfund sites because the EPA or an equivalent state agency contends that we and other potentially responsible scrap metal suppliers are liable for the cleanup of those sites as a result of having sold scrap metal to unrelated manufacturers for recycling as a raw material in the manufacture of new products. We are involved in litigation or administrative proceedings with regard to several of these sites in which we are contesting, or at the appropriate time may contest, our liability. In addition, we have received information requests with regard to other sites which may be under consideration by the EPA as potential CERCLA sites.Although we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss in connection with various environmental matters or the effect on our consolidated financial position, we make accruals as warranted. In addition, although we do not believe that a reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued for pending lawsuits, claims or proceedings would be material to our financial statements, additional developments may occur, and due to inherent uncertainties, including evolving remediation technology, changing regulations, possible third-party contributions, the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors, the amounts we ultimately are required to pay could vary significantly from the amounts we accrue, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.WE ARE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.We are involved in various litigation matters, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters and construction contract disputes. The nature of our operations also exposes us to possible litigation claims in the future. Because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. These matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we are unable to estimate precisely the ultimate dollar amount of exposure to loss in connection with litigation matters, we make accruals as warranted. However, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from the amounts we actually pay, due to inherent uncertainties and the inherent shortcomings of the estimation process, the uncertainties involved in litigation and other factors.16SOME OF OUR OPERATIONS PRESENT SIGNIFICANT RISK OF INJURY OR DEATH.The industrial activities conducted at our facilities present significant risk of serious injury or death to our employees, customers or other visitors to our operations, notwithstanding our safety precautions, including our material compliance with Federal, state and local employee health and safety regulations, and we may be unable to avoid material liabilities for injuries or deaths. We maintain workers' compensation insurance to address the risk of incurring material liabilities for injuries or deaths, but there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available on the terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could result in material liabilities to us for any injuries or deaths.HEALTH CARE LEGISLATION COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASED COSTS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR WORKFORCE.Recently enacted health care mandates may cause us to evaluate the scope of health benefits offered to our workforce and the method in which they are delivered, and increase our and our employees' costs. If we are not able to offer a competitive level of benefits, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel may be adversely affected. Higher health care costs may result in (i) an inability to reinvest sufficient capital in our operations, (ii) an inability to sustain dividends, (iii) lowered debt ratings and (iv) an increase in the cost of capital, all of which may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.