Item 1A. Risk Factors The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Certain statements contained in this Item 1A, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, other parts of this report and other Company filings are forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, future sales growth, operating results and financial condition. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company’s current plans and expectations regarding important risk factors and are based on information currently known to the Company. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking statements contained in this report or made by the management of the Company involve risks and uncertainties, and are subject to change based on various important factors. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. The factors listed below, among others, could affect the 4 Company’s financial results and could cause the Company’s financial performance to differ materially from the expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company: Changes in Economic, Political or Social Conditions Our profitability may be impacted by overall economic conditions, particularly in Southern California. Changes in economic conditions such as inflation, employment levels, interest rates and tax rates may reduce consumer spending or influence our customers to shift their spending to our competitors. In addition, our business may be subject to interruption from acts of terrorism, national emergencies or natural disasters. Competition in the Grocery Business The retail grocery business is intensely competitive with respect to price, food quality and selection, service and location. During the past several years, there has been a consolidation in the supermarket industry. We are in direct competition with numerous local outlets of regional and national supermarket chains, independent grocery stores, convenience stores, specialty and gourmet markets and food and grocery departments in mass merchandise and club stores. There are a number of well established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, some of which are also nonunion. We frequently face the opening of a new or remodeled competitor’s store in our trade area. Competition also requires us to periodically remodel our existing stores, at ever-increasing costs, in order to maintain their appeal. An inability to successfully compete with other grocery retailers in our trade areas could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. Changes in Laws or Regulations or Failure to Comply We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements which regulate health and sanitation standards, food labeling and handling, the sale of alcoholic beverages, employment, working conditions, citizenship requirements and public accommodations. Changes to such laws or regulations may adversely affect our profitability by increasing our costs or affecting the sale of certain items. In addition, we must comply with state and local fire, zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect the operation of our existing stores or could delay or prevent the opening of a new store. Changes in Accounting Standards, Policies and Practices The issuance of new pronouncements or changes to existing accounting policies and practices could have a significant impact on our reported results or change the way we account for various transactions. New policies and changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. Availability and Retention of Retail Space We currently lease the majority of our store locations. Typically, our supermarket leases have initial 20-year lease terms and may include options for up to an additional 20 years. The average term remaining on our supermarket leases, including renewal options, is approximately 21 years. 5 Our revenues and profitability would be negatively impacted if we are unable to renew these leases at reasonable rates. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new trade areas and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We may not be able to find suitable locations that meet our demographic requirements at a reasonable cost. The Ability of our Vendors to Supply Products and Services in a Timely Manner Our business is dependent on our ability to purchase products from a large wholesaler and numerous smaller vendors in a timely manner and at competitive prices. The largest supplier for our stores is Unified, a grocery wholesale cooperative, which has provided product for our stores for thirty-two years. We currently procure approximately 18% of our product from Unified. Any disruption in the business of Unified or any of our other principal suppliers could negatively impact our sales and profitability. Even where we have access to alternative sources of supply, the failure of a supplier to meet our demands may temporarily disrupt store level merchandise selection. Ability to Control Insurance Coverage Costs and Claims Experience We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for coverage associated with losses related to workers’ compensation, general and auto liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, fiduciary, employment practices liability, business interruption, crime, earthquake and health care. If insurance costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications, cost control measures, sales increases or by improving our operating efficiency. We are self-insured for general and auto liability and, in some prior years, for workers’ compensation as well. We have stop-loss insurance coverage to limit our exposure on a per claim basis and are insured for covered costs in excess of per claim limits. The Company devotes substantial time and effort to maintaining a safe environment in our stores, warehouse and offices. However, the cost of both insured and self-insured plans is highly dependent upon legal and legislative trends, the inflation rate of premiums and our ability to manage claims. The Outcome of Current and Future Legal Proceedings From time to time we are the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging injury, food quality or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or current employees, claims concerning hazardous substances on our current or previously owned properties, class action suits concerning warning labels and other claims. A lawsuit or claim could result in a decision against us that could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the cost of defending ourselves against lawsuits and claims, regardless of merit, could have a negative impact on our profitability. 6 Impact of Local Projects in the Vicinity of our Supermarkets From time to time, local events or projects take place in the vicinity of our stores that may have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Major road construction on Santa Monica Boulevard near our Century City store began in March 2003 and was completed during the fourth quarter of 2006. At times during the project, construction occured directly in front of, or very close to, the shopping center in which our store is located. This construction, together with a major remodel of the shopping center, resulted in a significant decline in sales and profitability for the store. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information. New Labor Contracts and Labor Stoppages The majority of our employees belong to unions with which we have signed labor agreements which establish rates of pay, benefits and procedures for the orderly settlement of disputes. In order to continue to attract and retain quality personnel, we may accept terms that increase our operating costs, which in turn, may negatively impact our profitability. If contract negotiations are not successful, the union could vote to strike our stores, distribution center and offices. The Company recently completed negotiations with the UFCW to renew the contract covering the majority of our employees which expired on March 5, 2007. The new contract discontinues the use of a two-tier wage structure and provides for, among other things, wage increases and modifications to the pension and health and welfare plans. Our new contract expires March 5, 2010. The UFCW has not yet reached an agreement with the three largest grocery retailers in the Company’s trade area. Their current agreement expires March 5, 2007. If the UFCW is unable to negotiate a new contract with these grocery companies, the union could vote to strike one or more of them. The decision to strike one or more of our competitors could result in a temporary increase in sales and labor and related costs similar to what the Company experienced during the 2003-2004 labor dispute. If the UFCW reaches an agreement with the other participating employers in our trade area under terms that are more favorable to the employers than those agreed to by Gelson’s, this could affect our ability to compete with grocery retailers whose labor costs are less than our own. In addition, if the three major grocery retailers in our trade area agree to the wage rates that Gelson’s has negotiated under its new contract with the UFCW, then Gelson’s has agreed to further increase its hourly wage rate for experienced level employees by an additional $.05 per hour in the second and third years of the new contract. The elimination of the two-tier wage structure and increases in wage and benefit costs provided under the new contract could negatively impact the Company’s profitability unless it is able to offset the increased costs through a combination of sales growth, increased prices, management of labor hours and cost savings in other areas. The Company contributes to multi-employer health care and pension plans for the UFCW, and therefore, the rates paid by all employers participating in the trust funds must be equal. Consequently, the benefit contribution rates that the Company negotiated with the UFCW may change based on the outcome of the union’s negotiations with the three major grocery retailers. 7 Retention of Key Personnel Our success is dependent on our key employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel including the replacement of senior management upon retirement. Individuals of this caliber are historically in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and thus, may hinder our ability to operate effectively. Stock Price Volatility The market price of our Class A Common Stock (Class A) could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events including general economic and market conditions, variations in our earnings results, publicity regarding us and our competitors and the grocery business in general. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Furthermore, there is not a significant volume of trading in our Class A which subjects our stock price to a higher level of volatility and may adversely impact the liquidity of the stock. Under the new congressionally mandated diversification requirements, stock currently held for the benefit of participants in the Company’s Stock Bonus Plan could be sold which may have a negative effect on the price of Class A. Fluctuations in our Class A price also impact compensation expense as it relates to our outstanding stock appreciation rights (SARs). See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 