Item 1A. Risk Factors The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Certain statements contained in this Item 1A, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, other parts of this report and other Company filings are forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, future sales, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company’s current plans and expectations regarding important risk factors and are based on information currently known to the Company. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking statements contained in this report or made by the management of the Company involve risks and uncertainties, and are subject to change based on various important factors. Such statements may be identified by such words as “anticipate,” “expect,” “may,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “project,” and similar words or phrases. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. The factors listed below, among others, could affect the Company’s financial results and could cause the Company’s financial performance to differ materially from the expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company: Changes in Economic, Political or Social Conditions Our profitability may be impacted by both national and local economic conditions, particularly in Southern California. Changes in economic conditions such as recessionary cycles, increased levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, inflation, higher interest rates and tax rates and increased energy costs may result in reduced consumer spending or influence our customers to shift their spending to our lower-priced competitors. The depressed state of the economy, including its impact on the unemployment rate, the financial markets and the real estate markets, as well as the effects of budget uncertainties in California, have and will continue to influence consumer spending patterns in the future. In addition, current market conditions have continued to limit the amount that the Company can charge for its products and the Company has continued to emphasize price specials and discount coupons in its advertising. If the Company’s sales volume continues to decrease or if the Company is unable to pass increased costs on to its customers, profit margins may be negatively affected. In addition, our business may be subject to interruption from acts of terrorism, national emergencies or natural disasters. 4 Competition in the Grocery Business The retail grocery business is intensely competitive with respect to price, food quality and selection, service and location. The Company is in direct competition with numerous local outlets of regional and national supermarket chains, independent grocery stores, convenience stores, specialty and gourmet markets and food and grocery departments in mass merchandise and club stores. There are a number of well established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours, many of which are also nonunion. The Company frequently faces the opening of a new or remodeled competitor’s store in its trade area. Consequently, the Company also must continually maintain its existing stores in order to retain their appeal. An inability to successfully compete with other grocery retailers in our trade areas could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. Food and Drug Safety Concerns There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness regarding food and drug safety. The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the Company’s food and drug products. Any events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination or food-borne illness could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence. In addition, adverse publicity about these types of concerns whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations. New Labor Contracts and Labor Stoppages The majority of our employees belong to unions with which we have labor agreements which establish rates of pay, benefits, work rules and procedures for the orderly settlement of disputes. In order to continue to attract and retain quality personnel, we may accept terms that increase our operating costs, which in turn, may negatively impact our profitability. If contract negotiations are not successful, the union could recommend that our employees vote to strike our stores, distribution center and offices. In July 2007, the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW) completed negotiation of a new contract with the three major grocery retailers in our trade area - Vons, Ralphs and Albertsons grocery chains (Majors). The wage increases agreed to by these three competitors were somewhat less than the Company agreed to for certain job classifications and experience levels during our UFCW negotiations in February 2007 and March 2009. This could affect our ability to compete with grocery retailers whose labor costs are less than our own. Our contract with the UFCW expired March 6, 2011, the same date as the Majors’ contract. The Majors are currently in negotiations with the UFCW to renew their collective bargaining agreements. The Company has signed an extension agreement with the UFCW pending the outcome of the UFCW’s negotiations with the Majors which obligates Gelson’s to any changes agreed to by the Majors in hourly wage rates and contributions to the benefit plans. 5 Cost of Providing Employee Benefits The Company provides health insurance for the majority of its nonunion employees, for which the employees pay a portion. Health care costs have increased significantly in recent years. If this trend continues, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. The status of the recent health care reform makes it more difficult than ever to predict the impact on health care costs in the near future. The Company also contributes to several multi-employer union health care plans in accordance with the Company’s various collective bargaining agreements. The majority of the Company’s union employees are members of the UFCW. The Company’s UFCW health and welfare contribution rate was scheduled to increase effective with hours worked during March 2009; however, the Company was notified by the Southern California United Food & Commercial Workers Unions and the Food Employers Joint Trust Funds (Trust), in the first quarter of 2009, that the increase had been suspended. In March 2010, the Company was notified that the UFCW health and welfare contribution rate would increase effective March 2010 to the maximum allowable rate under the collective bargaining agreement resulting in a significant increase in the Company’s health and welfare expense. The agreement also allowed for an additional increase in the health and welfare contribution rate effective February 2011 which has gone into effect. As discussed above, the Company’s contract with the UFCW expired March 6, 2011. The UFCW is currently negotiating with the Majors. All employers who participate in a multi-employer plan are required to contribute at the same hourly rate based on straight-time hours worked in order to fund the plan, and accordingly, the Company will be subject to the same contribution rate as negotiated by the Majors. The Company has been notified that the UFCW health and welfare plan is currently underfunded. Many factors influence the funded status of the plans including changes in the cost of health care, the plans’ return on investment, changes to benefits offered under the plans, government regulations and the level of employee utilization. The Company also participates in various multi-employer union pension plans. Adverse financial market developments have significantly impacted the funded status of pension plans on a worldwide basis. The Company’s contributions under the UFCW pension plan were fixed under the terms of the agreement which expired on March 6, 2011. The economic downturn has had a significant impact on the funded status of the health care and pension plans to which the Company contributes. The Company anticipates that both health care and pension benefits will be important topics during negotiations with the UFCW. If the Company and other participating employers are unable to negotiate an acceptable agreement with the union concerning employee benefits, a labor dispute could result or the negotiations could result in a new agreement requiring higher contribution rates. In addition, if any of the participating employers in the plan withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to cover the underfunded liabilities associated with its participants, the Company may be required to make additional contributions. Each of these scenarios could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Retention of Key Personnel Our success is dependent on our key employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel including the replacement of senior management upon retirement. Individuals of this caliber could be in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and thus, may hinder our ability to operate effectively. 6 Changes in Laws or Regulations or Failure to Comply We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements which regulate health and sanitation standards, food labeling and handling, the sale of alcoholic beverages, employment practices, working conditions, citizenship requirements and public accommodations. Changes to such laws or regulations may adversely affect our profitability by increasing our costs or affecting the sale of certain items. In addition, we must comply with state and local fire, zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect the costs and the operation of our existing stores or could delay or prevent the opening of a new store. Changes in Accounting Standards, Policies and Practices The issuance of new pronouncements or changes to existing accounting policies and practices could have a significant impact on our reported results or change the way we account for various transactions. New policies and changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. Availability and Retention of Retail Space We currently lease the majority of our store locations. Typically, our supermarket leases have initial twenty year lease terms and may include options for up to an additional twenty years. The average term remaining on our supermarket leases, including renewal options, is approximately seventeen years. Our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted if we are unable to renew any of these leases at reasonable rates. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new trade areas and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We may not be able to find suitable locations that meet our demographic and operational requirements at a reasonable cost. The most recent opening of a Gelson’s store occurred in September 2001 when the Company opened its location in Pasadena, California. The Ability of our Vendors to Supply Products and Services in a Timely Manner Our business is dependent on our ability to purchase products from a large wholesaler and numerous smaller vendors in a timely manner and at competitive prices. The largest supplier for our stores is Unified, a grocery wholesale cooperative, which has provided product for our stores for approximately 36 years. We currently procure approximately 15% of our product from Unified. Any disruption in the business of Unified or any of our other principal suppliers could negatively impact our sales and profitability. Even where we have access to alternative sources of supply, the failure of a major supplier to fulfill our orders could temporarily disrupt store level merchandise selection. 7 Ability to Control Insurance Coverage Costs and Claims Experience We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for coverage associated with losses related to workers’ compensation, general and auto liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, fiduciary, employment practices liability, business interruption, crime, earthquake and health care. If insurance costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications, cost control measures, sales increases or by improving our operating efficiency. We are self-insured for general and auto liability and, in some prior years, for workers’ compensation as well. We have stop-loss insurance coverage to limit our exposure on a per claim basis and are insured for covered costs in excess of per claim limits. The Company devotes substantial time and effort to maintaining a safe environment in our stores, warehouse and offices. However, the cost of both insured and self-insured plans is highly dependent upon legal and legislative trends, the inflation rate of premiums and our ability to manage claims. The Outcome of Current and Future Legal Proceedings From time to time we are the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging injury, food quality or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or current employees, claims concerning hazardous substances on our current or previously owned or leased properties, class action suits concerning warning labels and other claims. A lawsuit or claim could result in a decision against us that could have an adverse effect on our business if not covered by insurance. Additionally, the cost of defending ourselves against lawsuits and claims, regardless of merit, could have a negative impact on our profitability. Impact of Local Projects in the Vicinity of our Supermarkets From time to time, local events or projects take place in the vicinity of our stores that may have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Stock Price Volatility The market price of our Class A Common Stock (Class A) could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events including general economic and market conditions, variations in our earnings results, publicity regarding the Company or its competitors and the grocery business in general. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Furthermore, there is not a significant volume of trading in our Class A which subjects our stock price to a higher level of volatility and may adversely impact the liquidity of the stock. In March 2007, the Company merged its Stock Bonus Plan into its 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan (401(k) Plan) in order to satisfy the new congressionally mandated diversification requirements. Stock previously held for the benefit of participants in the Company’s Stock Bonus Plan was transferred to individual participant accounts in the Company’s 401(k) Plan. As of January 1, 2011, participants in the Company’s 401(k) Plan held 66,352 shares of Class A in the 401(k) Plan. These participants can elect to sell their shares which may have a negative effect on the price of Class A. Fluctuations in our Class A price also impact compensation expense as it relates to our outstanding stock appreciation rights (SARs). See Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 