Item 1A. Risk Factors The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Certain statements contained in this Item 1A, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, other parts of this report and other Company filings are forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, future sales, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company’s current plans and expectations regarding important risk factors and are based on information currently known to the Company. The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking statements contained in this report or made by the management of the Company involve risks and uncertainties, and are subject to change based on various important factors. Such statements may be identified by such words as “anticipate,” “expect,” “may,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “project,” “maybe,” “appears,” “intend,” “plan” and similar words or phrases. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. The factors listed below, among others, could affect the Company’s financial results and could cause the Company’s financial performance to differ materially from the expectations expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company: Changes in Economic, Political or Social Conditions Our profitability may be impacted by both national and local economic conditions, particularly in Southern California. Changes in economic conditions such as recessionary cycles, increased levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, inflation, higher interest rates and tax rates and increased energy costs may result in reduced consumer spending or influence our customers to shift their spending to our lower-priced competitors. The depressed state of the economy, including its impact on the unemployment rate, the financial markets and the real estate markets, as well as the effects of budget uncertainties in California, have and will continue to influence consumer spending patterns in the future. In addition, current market conditions have continued to limit the amount that the Company can charge for its products and the Company has continued to emphasize price specials and discount coupons in its advertising. If the Company’s sales volume decreases or if the Company is unable to pass increased costs on to its customers, profit margins may be negatively affected. In addition, our business may be subject to interruption from acts of terrorism, national emergencies or natural disasters. 4 Competition in the Grocery Business The retail grocery business is intensely competitive with respect to price, food quality and selection, service and location. The Company is in direct competition with numerous local outlets of regional and national supermarket chains, independent grocery stores, convenience stores, specialty and gourmet markets and food and grocery departments in mass merchandise and club stores. There are a number of well established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours, many of which are also nonunion. The Company frequently faces the opening of a new or remodeled competitor’s store in its trade area. Consequently, the Company also must continually maintain its existing stores in order to retain their appeal. An inability to successfully compete with other grocery retailers in our trade areas could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability. Food and Drug Safety Concerns There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness regarding food and drug safety. The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the Company’s food and drug products. Any events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination or food-borne illness could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence. In addition, adverse publicity about these types of concerns whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations. New Labor Contracts and Labor Stoppages The majority of our employees belong to unions with which we have labor agreements which establish rates of pay, benefits, work rules and procedures for the orderly settlement of disputes. In order to continue to attract and retain quality personnel, we may accept terms that increase our operating costs, which in turn, may negatively impact our profitability. If contract negotiations are not successful, the union could recommend that our employees vote to strike our stores, distribution center and offices. The majority of Gelson’s employees are members of the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW). In September 2011, the UFCW completed negotiation of a new contract with the three major grocery retailers in our trade area – Vons, Ralphs and Albertsons grocery chains (Majors). The wage rates agreed to by these three competitors were somewhat less than the Company agreed to for certain job classifications and experience levels during our UFCW negotiations which were completed in October 2011. This could affect our ability to compete with grocery retailers whose labor costs are less than our own. Our contract with the UFCW expires March 2, 2014, the same as the Major’s contract. 5 Cost of Providing Employee Benefits The Company provides health insurance for the majority of its non-union employees, for which the employees pay a portion. Health care costs have increased significantly in recent years. If this trend continues, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. The status of the recent health care reform makes it more difficult than ever to predict the impact on health care costs in the near future. The Company also contributes to several multi-employer union health care plans in accordance with the Company’s various collective bargaining agreements. All employers who participate in a multi-employer plan are required to contribute at the same hourly rate based on straight-time hours worked in order to fund the plan. The Company’s contributions under the UFCW health care plan are scheduled to increase every March through the term of the current agreement which expires on March 2, 2014. Contributions to the UFCW health care plan have increased substantially in recent years. The same issues that impact the cost of providing health care to our nonunion employees, as discussed above, may also impact the cost of providing health care to our union employees. The Company participates in various multi-employer union pension plans. Adverse economic and financial market developments have significantly impacted the funded status of pension plans on a worldwide basis in recent years. Currently, the Company’s contributions under the UFCW pension plan are already established in accordance with the terms of the current agreement which expires on March 8, 2014. However, the most recently available certified zone status provided by the plan trust indicates that the plan was in critical status (less than 65 percent funded) as defined by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 for the year ended March 31, 2010. A rehabilitation plan has been implemented and includes a schedule of benefit cuts and contribution rate increases that allows for projected emergence from critical status at the end of the rehabilitation period on March 31, 2024. If the funded status of the plan deteriorates or if the rehabilitation plan is unsuccessful or if any of the participating employers in the plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to cover the underfunded liabilities associated with its participants, the Company may be required to make additional contributions in the future. Each of these scenarios, as well as those discussed above relative to health care, could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Retention of Key Personnel Our success is dependent on our key employees. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel including the replacement of senior management upon retirement. Individuals of this caliber could be in short supply and this shortage may limit our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and thus, may hinder our ability to operate effectively. Changes in Laws or Regulations or Failure to Comply We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements which regulate health and sanitation standards, food labeling and handling, the sale of alcoholic beverages, employment practices, working conditions, citizenship requirements and public accommodations. Changes to such laws or regulations may adversely affect our profitability by increasing our costs or affecting the sale of certain items. In addition, we must comply with state and local fire, zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect the costs and the operation of our existing stores or could delay or prevent the opening of a new store. 6 Changes in Accounting Standards, Policies and Practices The issuance of new pronouncements or changes to existing accounting policies and practices could have a significant impact on our reported results or change the way we account for various transactions. New policies and changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. Availability and Retention of Retail Space We currently lease the majority of our store locations. Typically, our supermarket leases have initial twenty year lease terms and may include options for up to an additional twenty years. The average term remaining on our supermarket leases, including renewal options, is approximately sixteen years. Our revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted if we are unable to renew any of these leases at reasonable rates. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new trade areas and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We may not be able to find suitable locations that meet our demographic and operational requirements at a reasonable cost. The most recent opening of a Gelson’s store occurred in September 2001 when the Company opened its location in Pasadena, California. The Ability of our Vendors to Supply Products and Services in a Timely Manner Our business is dependent on our ability to purchase products from a large wholesaler and numerous smaller vendors in a timely manner and at competitive prices. The largest supplier for our stores is Unified, a grocery wholesale cooperative, which has provided product for our stores for approximately 37 years. We currently procure approximately 14% of our product from Unified. Any disruption in the business of Unified or any of our other principal suppliers could negatively impact our sales and profitability on a short-term basis. Even where we have access to alternative sources of supply, the failure of a major supplier to fulfill our orders could temporarily disrupt store level merchandise selection. Ability to Control Insurance Coverage Costs and Claims Experience We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for coverage associated with losses related to workers’ compensation, general and auto liability, property damage, directors and officers liability, fiduciary, employment practices liability, business interruption, crime, earthquake and health care. If insurance costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our profitability if we are not able to offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications, cost control measures, sales increases or by improving our operating efficiency. 7 We are self-insured for general and auto liability and, in some prior years, we were self-insured for workers’ compensation as well. We have stop-loss insurance coverage on each of these self-insured plans to limit our exposure on a per claim basis and are insured for covered costs in excess of per claim limits. The Company devotes substantial time and effort to maintaining a safe environment in our stores, warehouse and offices. However, the cost of both insured and self-insured plans is highly dependent upon legal and legislative trends, the inflation rate of premiums and our ability to manage claims. The Outcome of Current and Future Legal Proceedings From time to time we are the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging injury, food quality or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or current employees, claims concerning hazardous substances on our current or previously owned or leased properties, class action suits concerning warning labels and other claims. A lawsuit or claim could result in a decision against us that could have an adverse effect on our business if not covered by insurance. Additionally, the cost of defending ourselves against lawsuits and claims, regardless of merit, could have a negative impact on our profitability. Information Technology Systems Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and critical to continuing operations. If we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store some personal information that our customers provide to us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. Under certain circumstances, we may share information with vendors that assist us in conducting our business, with third parties as required by law, and/or with third parties with the permission of the individual. Although we have implemented procedures to protect that information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to penetration. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors’ network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or business information. In addition, an employee, contractor, or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain information or inadvertently cause a breach involving the information. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations, associates, and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in additional expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. Impact of Local Projects in the Vicinity of our Supermarkets From time to time, local events or projects take place in the vicinity of our stores that may have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. 8 Stock Price Volatility The market price of our Class A Common Stock (Class A) could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events including general economic and market conditions, variations in our earnings or other financial results, publicity regarding the Company or its competitors and the grocery business in general. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Furthermore, there is not a significant volume of trading in our Class A which subjects our stock price to a higher level of volatility and may adversely impact the liquidity of the stock. Fluctuations in our Class A price also impact compensation expense as it relates to our outstanding stock appreciation rights (SARs). See Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 