ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Finances Our independent registered public accountants have issued an audit opinion that includes a going concern uncertainty. At December 31, 2011, and for the fiscal year then ended, as in previous years, we had a net loss and negative working capital, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and caused our independent auditors to include an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements with respect to that uncertainty. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we had revenues of $nil from continuing operations. We are currently insolvent, and we are in arrears on our current accounts. Our ability to continue operations will depend on the successful implementation of management’s initiatives to: (i) minimize cost of sales; (ii) improve margins of the main revenue-generating operation, the contract publishing business; (iii) restructure administration to reduce costs; and (iv) operate our Modizo site. If we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding, we may be forced to discontinue operations. Our current liabilities are significant, and if those to whom we owe accounts payable were to demand payment, we would be unable to pay. At December 31, 2011, we had total current liabilities of approximately $593,000, including accounts payable at approximately $493,000 and accrued expenses of approximately $39,000. As of the same date, we had cash of only $68,000. If those to whom these payments are due were to demand immediate payment, as they are entitled to do, we would not be able to make the required payments and would be subject to liability if our creditors chose to enforce their rights, which could result in our bankruptcy and liquidation, at worst. Under such a scenario, our assets would be distributed to our creditors leaving nothing to be distributed to our stockholders. We currently have no significant operating capital and will need to raise additional capital to implement our business plan. We presently have no significant operating capital. We believe that we will need to raise approximately $2.0 million to meet our preliminary targets by the end of fiscal year 2012. We have no commitments for that funding, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will raise any meaningful amount of capital. We will need to seek additional financing from the sale of equity or from commercial lenders or other sources, for which we have no commitments or arrangements, or we will be required to delay the implementation of our business plan. 6 Our management has identified significant internal control deficiencies, which management and our independent registered public accountants believe constitute material weaknesses. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, certain significant internal control deficiencies became evident to management that, in the aggregate, represent material weaknesses, including: · lack of sufficient independent directors to form a separate audit committee; · insufficient corporate governance policies; and · accounting for technical matters. As part of the communications respecting its audit procedures for the year ended December 31, 2011, our independent registered public accountants informed the audit committee that these deficiencies constituted material weaknesses, as defined by Auditing Standard No. 5, “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements and Related Independence Rule and Conforming Amendments,” established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We cannot be certain that we will have the necessary financing to address these deficiencies or that we will be able to attract qualified individuals to serve on our board. Our failure to successfully remediate these issues could lead to heightened risk for financial reporting mistakes and irregularities and a further loss of public confidence in our internal controls that could harm the market price of our common stock. During the 2012 fiscal year, management plans to undertake appropriate and reasonable steps to make the necessary improvements to implement changes to remediate the deficiencies, including attracting independent directors and reorganizing our corporate governance policies and processes. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations We operate in an intensely competitive market and our efforts to compete may not be successful. Modizo is classified under the broader category of social-network-based applications. There are other larger, more established social networks that may choose to enter the celebrity video blogging market. This is a threat that affects any new web-based platform or application as it can be copied. We believe that the only way to protect Modizo from anyone establishing a competing business is by securing the content. Although we currently have over 500 celebrities providing content, we cannot assure that they will continue to do so or that we will be able to secure sufficient content to be successful. We have sales activity and operations outside of the United States that subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in foreign countries where we have operations and by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. We are actively pursuing potential customers in Europe and the Asia Pacific region and any political instability or instability in worldwide economic environments could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. 7 We may not succeed if we are unable to attract employees and retain the services of our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on retaining current management and key personnel and on recruiting and hiring additional management and key personnel. In particular, as we continue adapting our new technology to commercial applications and continue to be active as a public company, we will rely on the expertise of our executive officers. If we are unable to hire suitable sales, marketing, and operational personnel, we may not be able to successfully develop, improve, market, and sell products based on our technology. We have not obtained key-man life insurance on our officers or directors. Competition for individuals with the qualifications that we require is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate, or retain these highly qualified people. The failure to attract, integrate, motivate, and retain these employees could harm our business. Claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others could be costly to defend or settle. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common. We may, from time to time, encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to allow us to market products and services without incurring third-party liability, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. Any litigation to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Furthermore, a party making a claim could secure a judgment that would require us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling products or services. Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed if any of these events occurred. We work with confidential customer data and, as such, our business could be damaged and we could potentially be exposed to liability in the event that we experienced a breach in our security. We handle confidential and sensitive customer data. We cannot guarantee that the measures we take will be sufficient to protect that data and any breach in security would expose us to liability. It may be difficult for our stockholders to enforce any civil liabilities against us or our officers or directors because many of our officers and substantially all of our operations are currently outside the United States. Many of our assets are located outside the United States, all of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. 8 Risk Factors Related to Our Stock Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly, which may affect our stockholders’ ability to sell shares of our common stock. We cannot assure that a more active trading market for our common stock will develop. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short periods or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to enter the market from time to time in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, cannot offer assurances that the market for our stock will be stable or appreciate over time. These factors may negatively impact our stockholders’ ability to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock may be affected by issuances of common stock in connection with any financing. We need to raise capital in order to continue our operations. We may seek required funds through the sale of equity or other securities. Our ability to complete an offering on acceptable terms will depend on many factors, including the condition of the securities markets generally and for companies such as our company at the time of such offering; our business, financial condition, and prospects at the time of the proposed offering; our ability to identify and reach a satisfactory arrangement with prospective underwriters; and various other factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure that we will be able to complete an offering on terms favorable to us or at all. The issuance of additional equity securities may dilute the interest of our existing stockholders or may subordinate their rights to the superior rights of new investors. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Accordingly, there are certain suitability requirements that may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 9 