ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Finances Our independent auditors have issued a going concern audit opinion. At December 31, 2008, and for the fiscal year then ended, as in previous years, we had a net loss and negative working capital, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and which caused our independent auditors to include an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements for a going concern. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we had revenues of $2,500. We are currently insolvent, and we are in arrears on our current accounts and salaries and wages to our employees. Our ability to continue operations will depend on positive cash flow from future operations and on our ability to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing. If we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding, we may be forced to discontinue operations. Our current liabilities continue to increase, and if those to whom we owe accounts and notes payable were to demand payment, we would be unable to pay. At December 31, 2008, we had total current liabilities of approximately $1.4 million, including accounts payable at approximately $380,000, accrued expenses of approximately $29,000, accrued compensation of approximately $440,000, and convertible notes payable of approximately $400,000 (not including debt discounts). As of the same date, we had cash of only $14,138. If those to whom these payments are due were to demand immediate payment, as they are entitled to do, we would be unable to make the required payments and would be subject to liability if our creditors chose to enforce their rights, which could result in our bankruptcy and liquidation, at worst. Under such a scenario, our assets would be distributed to our creditors leaving nothing to be distributed to our stockholders. We currently have no significant operating capital and will need to raise additional capital to implement our business plan. We presently have no significant operating capital. We believe that we will need to raise approximately $2.0 million to be able to meet our preliminary targets by the end of fiscal year 2009. We have no commitments for that funding, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will raise any meaningful amount of capital. We will need to seek additional financing from the sale of equity or from commercial lenders or other sources, for which we have no commitments or arrangements, or we will be required to delay the implementation of our business plan. Our insignificant revenues make it difficult to forecast our future results. As a result of having insignificant revenues, it is impossible to predict our future performance or the period of time in which we can sustain our existence. 6 Our management has identified significant internal control deficiencies, which management and our independent auditor believe constitute material weaknesses. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, certain significant internal control deficiencies became evident to management that, in the aggregate, represent material weaknesses, including: • lack of a sufficient number of independent directors on our audit committee; • insufficient segregation of duties in our finance and accounting function due to limited personnel; • insufficient corporate governance policies; and • accounting for technical matters. As part of the communications by our independent auditors with our audit committee with respect to audit procedures for the year ended December 31, 2008, our independent auditors informed the audit committee that these deficiencies constituted material weaknesses, as defined by Auditing Standard No. 5, “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements and Related Independence Rule and Conforming Amendments,” established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We cannot be certain that we will have the necessary financing to address these deficiencies or that we will be able to attract qualified individuals to serve on our board. Our failure to successfully remediate these issues could lead to heightened risk for financial reporting mistakes and irregularities and a further loss of public confidence in our internal controls that could harm the market price of our common stock. Risk Factors Related to Our Operations We are a development-stage enterprise and as such have not made any significant sales of our products and solutions. We may not be able to execute our business plans due to failure to raise funds for working capital, competition, or many reasons. Should we fail to successfully create a market for our products and solutions, we may need to cease operations entirely. We operate in an intensely competitive market and our efforts to compete may not be successful. The PIV credit/debit card security market is highly competitive with several companies employing a variety of different solutions to minimize the risk of card fraud. Competing security solutions can be divided into two groups: • direct competitors providing wireless identity verification solutions; and • indirect competitors providing authorization or identity verification solutions for credit card use. In addition to the large companies specializing in security solutions, there are also other new entrants into the market with different technology solutions to address credit card security. If our efforts to compete are unsuccessful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent upon our partners to execute our business plans. We have two partnership agreements and are reliant on Bastion Payment Systems Corporation to provide technology development and support services and on Transpacific Broadband Group International, Inc., to provide collocation and Internet connectivity services. We cannot guarantee that our partners will be able to provide these services to effectively support our operations and develop our products to meet customer requirements. 7 We have sales activity and operations outside of the United States that subjects us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in foreign countries where we have operations and by changes in the foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. We are actively pursuing potential customers in Europe and the Asia Pacific region and any political instability or instability in worldwide economic environments could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. We may not succeed if we are unable to attract employees and retain the services of our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on retaining current management and key personnel and on recruiting and hiring additional management and key personnel. In particular, as we continue adapting our new technology to commercial applications and continue to be active as a public company, we will rely on the expertise of our executive officers, or if we are unable to hire suitable sales, marketing, and operational personnel, we may not be able to successfully develop, improve, market, and sell products based on this new technology. We have not obtained key-man life insurance on our officers or directors. Competition for individuals with the qualifications that we require is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate, or retain these highly qualified people. The failure to attract, integrate, motivate, and retain these employees could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable asset or incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property rights. Litigation to enforce intellectual property rights or to protect trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. Any inability to protect intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate to fully protect those intellectual property rights. Claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others could be costly to defend or settle. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common. We expect that software and security technologies and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlaps. We may, from time to time, encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to allow us to market products and services without incurring third-party liability, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. Any litigation to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Furthermore, a party making a claim could secure a judgment that would require us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling products or services. Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed if any of these events occurred. 8 If we become subject to service-related liability claims, they could be time-consuming and costly to defend. Because our customers will use our products and services to reduce their exposure to fraud and resulting financial losses, any errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. They could seek damages for losses from us, which, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Although we intend for our agreements with customers to contain provisions designed to limit exposure to service-related liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations of liability provisions. A service-related liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming, costly to defend, and harm our reputation. We work with confidential customer data and, as such, our business could be damaged and we could potentially be exposed to liability in the event that we experienced a breach in our security. We handle confidential and sensitive customer data. We cannot guarantee that the measures we take will be sufficient to protect that data and any breach in security would expose us to liability. It may be difficult for our stockholders to enforce any civil liabilities against us or our officers or directors because many of our officers and substantially all of our operations are currently outside the United States. Many of our assets are located outside the United States, a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. Risk Factors Related to Our Stock Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly, which may affect our shareholders' ability to sell shares of our common stock. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for our common stock will develop. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to enter the market from time to time in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for our stock will be stable or appreciate over time. These factors may negatively impact shareholders’ ability to sell shares of our common stock. 9 Our common stock may be affected by issuances of common stock in connection with any financing. We need to raise capital in order to continue our operations. Through November 2009, we may raise capital by issuing shares that are exempt from registration pursuant to Section 3(a)(7) of the Securities Act and the order of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to us. Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court order and Section 3(a)(7), the shares issued may be issued without restrictive legends. Accordingly, if we undertake such a financing by issuing our shares of common stock without restrictive legends, the shares may be sold in the public market. This creates an immediate dilution to our shareholders and could cause our stock price to decline. We may initiate additional reverse splits of our common stock without shareholder approval. The same bankruptcy court order that permits us to issue certain shares without a restrictive legend also permits us to reverse split our common stock without shareholder approval and without correspondingly reducing the number of shares we are authorized to issue through November 2009. If our board of directors chooses to initiate one or more reverse splits before the November 2009 deadline, we may issue more shares and our shareholders will have their ownership interest diluted. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Accordingly, there are certain suitability requirements that may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 