Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. The current uncertain macroeconomic climate, which includes but is not limited to decreased consumer confidence, volatile corporate operating results, reduced capital spending, lower research budgets, and the effects of reduced availability of credit, could lead to reduced demand from our customers and increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventory and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Continued or increased weakness in our end markets could negatively impact our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, recent concerns regarding the availability of credit, particularly in the United States, may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment. Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing, could adversely affect sales of our products and systems, particularly high-value integrated systems, and therefore harm our business and operating results. Further, a continued decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. Our investment portfolio includes U.S. government and agency debt securities, corporate debt securities, asset-backed securities and certificates of deposit. Although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to the credit quality and government guarantees of the underlying investments, a further decline in the capital and financial markets would adversely impact the market values of our investments and their liquidity. Such a decline in market value that is other-than-temporary, or any sale of our investments under illiquid market conditions, could result in our recognition of an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Our financial results are difficult to predict, and if we fail to meet our financial guidance or the expectations of investors, potential investors and/or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock will likely decline significantly. Our financial results in any given quarter have fluctuated and will likely continue to fluctuate. These fluctuations are typically unpredictable and can result from numerous factors including: • fluctuations in our customers’ capital spending, industry cyclicality (particularly in the semiconductor equipment industry), market seasonality (particularly in the scientific research market), levels of government funding available to our customers and other economic conditions within the markets we serve; • demand for our products and the products sold by our customers; • the level of orders within a given quarter and preceding quarters; • the timing and level of cancellations and delays of orders for our products; • the timing of product shipments within a given quarter; • variations in the mix of products we sell; • changes in our pricing practices or in the pricing practices of our competitors or suppliers; • our timing in introducing new products; • market acceptance of any new or enhanced versions of our products; • timing of new product introductions by our competitors; • timing and level of scrap and warranty expenses; • the availability, quality and cost of components and raw materials we use to manufacture our products; • our ability to manufacture a sufficient quantity of our products to meet customer demand; • changes in our effective tax rates; • changes in interest income (expense) resulting from repurchases of convertible notes, changes in our cash and marketable securities balances, and changes in interest rates; • changes in bad debt expense based on the collectibility of our accounts receivable; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • our levels of expenses. We may in the future choose to change prices, increase spending, or add or eliminate products in response to actions by competitors or in an effort to pursue new market opportunities. These actions may also adversely affect our business and operating results and may cause our quarterly results to be lower than the results of previous quarters. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last month of the quarter. Thus, variations in timing of sales, particularly for our higher-priced, higher-margin products, can cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly sales, gross margin and profitability. Orders expected to ship in one quarter could shift to another period due to changes in the anticipated timing of customers’ purchase decisions or rescheduled delivery dates requested by our customers. Our operating results for a particular quarter or year may be adversely affected if our customers, particularly our largest customers, cancel or reschedule orders, or if we cannot fill orders in time due to unexpected delays in manufacturing, testing, shipping and product acceptance. Also, we base our manufacturing on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which would result in delays in the shipment of our products 18 Table of Contents and could shift sales to a subsequent period. In addition, our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales, and if sales are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall on our operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly to compensate for the shortfall. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, are not reliable indicators of our future performance. In any period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to drop. We are dependent in part on the semiconductor capital equipment market, which is volatile and unpredictable. A significant portion of our current and expected future business comes from sales of components, subsystems and laser products to manufacturers of semiconductor fabrication, inspection and metrology equipment and sales of capital equipment to integrated semiconductor device manufacturers. The semiconductor capital equipment market has historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond effectively to these cycles. This market is currently experiencing a severe down-cycle, which has had a significant negative impact on our operating results. The timing and extent of a recovery in this market is uncertain, which severely limits our ability to predict our business prospects or financial results in this market. During industry downturns, our revenues from this market may decline suddenly and significantly. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. In addition, due to the relatively long manufacturing lead times for some of the systems and subsystems we sell to this market, we may incur expenditures or purchase raw materials or components for products we cannot sell. Accordingly, downturns in the semiconductor capital equipment market may materially harm our operating results. Conversely, when upturns in this market occur, we may have difficulty rapidly and effectively increasing our manufacturing capacity to meet sudden increases in customer demand. If we fail to do so we may lose business to our competitors and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales to the microelectronics market, and if we lose any of these customers or they significantly curtail their purchases of our products, our results of operations would be harmed. Our sales to the microelectronics market (which is comprised primarily of semiconductor capital equipment, hard disk texturing and solar panel manufacturing customers) constituted 29.4%, 28.7% and 32.4% of our consolidated net sales for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales to this market. Our top five customers in this market comprised approximately 47.2%, 56.3% and 58.2% of our sales to this market for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, with one customer making up a substantial portion of such percentage in each of such years. No single customer in this market comprised 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007 or 2006. If any of our principal customers discontinues its relationship with us, replaces us as a vendor for certain products or suffers downturns in its business, our business and results of operations could be harmed significantly. In addition, because a relatively small number of companies dominate the semiconductor equipment portion of this market, and because those companies rarely change vendors in the middle of a product’s life cycle, it may be particularly difficult for us to replace these customers if we lose their business. The microelectronics market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions, changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Because our customers face uncertainties with regard to the growth and requirements of these markets, their products and components may not achieve, or continue to achieve, anticipated levels of market acceptance. If our customers are unable to deliver products that gain market acceptance, it is likely that these customers will not purchase our products or will purchase smaller quantities of our products. We often invest substantial resources in developing our products, systems and subsystems in advance of significant sales of these products, systems and/or subsystems to such customers. A failure on the part of our 19 Table of Contents customers’ products to gain market acceptance, or a failure of the microelectronics market to grow would have a significant negative effect on our business and results of operations. Difficulties in executing our acquisitions could adversely impact our business. We have and will continue to acquire businesses, and the efficient and effective integration of our acquired businesses into our organization is critical to our growth. The process of integrating acquired companies into our operations requires significant resources and is time consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. Further, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions because of the following significant challenges: • potentially incompatible cultural differences between the two companies; • incorporating the acquired company’s technology and products into our current and future product lines, and successfully generating market demand for these expanded product lines; • potential additional geographic dispersion of operations; • the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • the difficulty in achieving anticipated synergies and efficiencies; • the difficulty in integrating disparate operational and information systems; • the difficulty in leveraging the acquired company’s and our combined technologies and capabilities across all product lines and customer bases; and • our ability to retain key customers, suppliers and employees of an acquired company. Our failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any past or future acquisition or to successfully integrate and/or manage the operations of the companies we acquire could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we may incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additional costs associated with past acquisitions, including asset impairment charges and other costs related to divestiture of acquired assets or businesses. Such charges could also include impairment of goodwill associated with past acquisitions. For example, our market capitalization decreased significantly during the fourth quarter of 2008, which caused us to reevaluate the fair values of our divisions. This ultimately led us to determine that goodwill and certain intangible assets associated with our Lasers Division were impaired, and we recorded an impairment charge of $119.9 million to write off the total goodwill balance and certain other intangible assets associated with that division. While we believe that our assumptions used in evaluating the goodwill associated with our PPT Division are reasonable, if market conditions continue to worsen, we may be required to recognize a goodwill impairment charge. Uncertainty in the development of the solar energy market could reduce the revenue we expect to generate from product sales to this market. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar energy technology will be widely adopted is uncertain. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar energy technology and demand for solar panels, including the following: • the cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products, including conventional energy sources such as coal and natural gas; • the performance and reliability of solar panels and thin-film technology compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • the availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; • the success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated photovoltaic, biomass and nuclear fusion; 20 Table of Contents • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of coal, oil, natural gas and other fossil fuels; • fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar panels, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and/or interest rates increase; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry to permit widespread adoption of solar electricity. If solar panel technology is not widely adopted or if demand for solar panels fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to generate the revenue we currently anticipate from sales of our solar panel manufacturing products. Many of the markets and industries that we serve are subject to rapid technological change, and if we do not introduce new and innovative products or improve our existing products, our business and results of operations will be negatively affected. Many of our markets are characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, shifting customer needs, new product introductions and enhancements, and the periodic introduction of disruptive technology that displaces current technology due to a combination of price, performance and reliability. As a result, many of the products in our markets can become outdated quickly and without warning. We depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to anticipate and address the demands of the marketplace for new and improved and disruptive technologies, either through internal development or by acquisitions, and to be price competitive. If we or our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, it may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for our existing products. If we or our competitors introduce disruptive technology that displaces current technology, existing product platforms or lines of business from which we generate significant revenue may be rendered obsolete. In addition, because certain of our markets experience severe cyclicality in capital spending, if we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner we may miss market upturns, or may fail to have our products or subsystems designed into our customers’ products. We may not be successful in acquiring, developing, manufacturing or marketing new products and technologies on a timely or cost-effective basis. If we fail to adequately introduce new, competitive products and technologies on a timely basis, our business and results of operations would be harmed. We offer products for multiple industries and must face the challenges of supporting the distinct needs of each of the markets we serve. We offer products for a number of markets. Because we operate in multiple markets, we must work constantly to understand the needs, standards and technical requirements of many different applications within these industries, and must devote significant resources to developing different products for these industries. Product development is costly and time consuming. We must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest substantial resources in developing products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. Our decision to continue to offer products to a given market or to penetrate new markets is based in part on our judgment of the size, growth rate and other factors that contribute to the attractiveness of a particular market. If our product offerings in any particular market are not competitive or our analyses of a market are incorrect, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Because the sales cycle for some of our products is long and difficult to predict, and certain of our orders are subject to rescheduling or cancellation, we may experience fluctuations in our operating results. Many of our capital equipment, system and subsystem products are complex, and customers for these products require substantial time to make purchase decisions. These customers often perform, or require us to perform extensive configuration, testing and evaluation of our products before committing to purchasing them. The sales cycle for our capital equipment, system and subsystem products from initial contact through shipment varies 21 Table of Contents significantly, is difficult to predict and can last more than one year. The orders comprising our backlog are generally subject to rescheduling without penalty or cancellation without penalty other than reimbursement for certain material costs. We have from time to time experienced order rescheduling and cancellations that have caused our revenues in a given period to be materially less than would have been expected based on our backlog at the beginning of the period. If we experience such rescheduling and/or cancellations in the future, our operating results will fluctuate from period to period. These fluctuations could harm our results of operations. If we are delayed in introducing our new products into the marketplace, our operating results will suffer. Because many of our products are sophisticated and complex, we may experience delays in introducing new products or enhancements to our existing products. If we do not introduce our new products or enhancements into the marketplace in a timely fashion, our customers may choose to use competitors’ products. In addition, because certain of our markets, such as the semiconductor equipment market, are highly cyclical in nature, if we fail to timely introduce new products in advance of an upturn in the market’s cycle, we may be foreclosed from selling products to certain customers until the next cycle. As such, our inability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. We face significant risks from doing business in foreign countries. Our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business internationally. For the years ended January 3, 2009, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, our international revenues accounted for approximately 53.1%, 49.7% and 47.6%, respectively, of total net sales, with a substantial portion of international sales originating in Europe and Japan. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of total net sales for the foreseeable future, and that in particular, the proportion of our sales to Asian customers will continue to increase. Our international operations expose us to various risks, which include: • adverse changes or instability in the political or economic conditions in countries or regions where we manufacture or sell our products; • challenges of administering our business globally; • the actions of U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, including embargoes, export restrictions, tariffs, trade restrictions and trade barriers, license requirements, currency controls and other rules and regulations applicable to the importing and exporting of our products, which are complicated and potentially conflicting and may impose strict and severe penalties for noncompliance; • longer accounts receivable collection periods; • overlapping, differing or more burdensome tax structures; • adverse currency fluctuations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • more complex and burdensome labor laws and practices in countries where we have employees; • difficulties in staffing and managing each of our individual foreign operations; and • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could affect the sales price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets, potentially making our products less price competitive. Such exchange rate fluctuations could also increase the costs and expenses of our foreign operations or require us to modify our current business practices. If we experience any of the risks associated with international business, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. 22 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, and if we fail to compete effectively, our operating results will suffer. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we believe that competition from both new and existing competitors will increase in the future. We compete in several specialized markets, against a limited number of companies in each market. We also face competition in some of our markets from our existing and potential customers who have developed or may develop products that are competitive to ours, or who engage subcontract manufacturers or system integrators to manufacture products or systems on their behalf. Some of our existing and potential competitors are more established, enjoy greater name recognition and possess greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we do. Other competitors are small and highly specialized firms that are able to focus on only one aspect of a market. We compete on the basis of product performance, features, quality, reliability, the breadth of our product portfolio and price and on our ability to manufacture and deliver our products on a timely basis. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors. In addition, competitive pressures may force us to reduce our prices, which could negatively affect our operating results. If we do not respond adequately to competitive challenges, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our international sales and operations may be adversely impacted by export controls. Exports of our products and technology are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. Government and administered by the U.S. Departments of Commerce and State. In certain instances, these regulations may require obtaining licenses from the administering agency prior to exporting products or technology to international locations or foreign nationals. For products and technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations administered by the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product and technology, the final destination and the identity and nationality of the end user. Virtually all exports of defense articles subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls require a license. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses to enable product and technology exports could reduce our revenue and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. Government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable export restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, failure to comply with any of these export regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and technology and damage to our reputation. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, we may lose our competitive advantage. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The patent and trademark law and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. In addition, patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our rights granted under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and the claims under our patent applications may not be allowed. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. Moreover, our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued may not be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We have in the past and may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors, which claims could result in costly litigation, the diversion of our technical and management personnel and the assertion of counterclaims by the defendants, including counterclaims asserting invalidity of our patents. We will take such actions where we believe that they are of sufficient strategic or economic importance to us to justify the cost. 23 Table of Contents We have experienced, and may in the future experience, intellectual property infringement claims, which could be costly and time consuming to defend. We have from time to time received communications from third parties alleging that we are infringing certain trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. Whenever such claims arise, we evaluate their merits. Any claims of infringement brought by third parties could result in protracted and costly litigation, and we could become subject to damages for infringement, or to an injunction preventing us from selling one or more of our products or using one or more of our trademarks. Such claims could also result in the necessity of obtaining a license relating to one or more of our products or current or future technologies, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any intellectual property litigation and the failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or develop substitute technology may divert management’s attention from other matters and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the terms of our customer contracts typically require us to indemnify the customer in the event of any claim of infringement brought by a third party based on our products. Any claims of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, our business and results of operations will suffer. Our ability to maintain and grow our business is directly related to the service of our employees in each area of our operations. Our future performance will be directly tied to our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. Competition for personnel in the technology marketplace is intense. We have from time to time in the past experienced attrition in certain management, engineering, manufacturing and product marketing positions, and we expect to continue to experience this attrition in the future. The decline in the value of our stock during 2008, and the absence of incentive plan bonuses and equity award vesting as a result of not meeting certain financial performance targets could adversely affect our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we are unable to hire sufficient numbers of employees with the experience and skills we need or to retain and motivate our existing employees, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our reliance on sole source and limited source suppliers could result in delays in production and distribution of our products. We obtain some of the materials used to build our products, systems and subsystems, such as the sheet steel used in some of our vibration isolation tables, and the laser crystals used in certain of our laser products, from single or limited sources due to unique component designs as well as specialized quality and performance requirements needed to manufacture our products. If our components or raw materials are unavailable in adequate amounts at acceptable quality levels or are unavailable on satisfactory terms, we may be required to purchase them from alternative sources, if available, which could increase our costs and cause delays in the production and distribution of our products. If we do not obtain comparable replacement components from other sources in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Many of our suppliers require long lead times to deliver the quantities of components that we need. If we fail to accurately forecast our needs, or if we fail to obtain sufficient quantities of components that we use to manufacture our products, then delays or reductions in production and shipment could occur, which would harm our business and results of operations. Our failure to successfully manage the transition of certain of our manufacturing operations to international locations and to contract manufacturers could harm our business. In 2008, we began transitioning the manufacture of certain of our product lines and subassemblies from their current manufacturing locations in the United States to our facility in Wuxi, China, and to selected contract manufacturers in Asia. We have historically directly manufactured most of our products at the same physical location throughout the products’ lives, or sold products manufactured by third parties on a private label basis. We have limited experience transitioning the manufacture of our products to different global locations or to third party manufacturers. If we are unable to successfully manage the transition of the manufacture of these products, our results of operations could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents In particular, transferring product lines to our facility in Wuxi, China requires us to transplant complex manufacturing equipment and processes a large geographical distance and to train a completely new workforce concerning the use of this equipment and these processes. If we are unable to manage this transfer and training smoothly and comprehensively, we could suffer manufacturing and supply chain delays, excessive product defects, harm to our results of operations and our reputation with our customers, and loss of customers. We also may not realize the cost and tax advantages that we currently anticipate from locating operations in China, due to rising material, labor and shipping costs and rapidly changing Chinese tax regulations. Additionally, qualifying contract manufacturers and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming activities, and there is no guarantee we will do so successfully. Further, our reliance on contract manufacturers reduces our control over the assembly process, quality assurance, production costs and material and component supply for our products. If we fail to manage our relationship with the contract manufacturers, or if any of the contract manufacturers experience financial difficulty, or delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. Further, if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to negotiate with suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results could be harmed. In addition, our contract manufacturers may terminate our agreements with them upon prior notice to us or for reasons such as if we become insolvent, or if we fail to perform a material obligation under the agreement. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations for any reason, including the termination of one of our contracts, we will likely suffer manufacturing and shipping delays, lost revenue, increased costs and damage to our customer relationships. Our products could contain defects, which would increase our costs and harm our business. Many of our products, especially our laser and automation products, are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. Further, the manufacture of these products often involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity of these products, design defects, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could adversely affect our manufacturing yields and product reliability. This could in turn harm our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships. We provide warranties for our products, and we accrue allowances for estimated warranty costs at the time we recognize revenue for the sale of the products. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of product return rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for our products. If actual return rates or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other suppliers, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: • loss of customers; • increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; • increased costs required to analyze and mitigate the defects or problems; • damage to our brand reputation; • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and engineering resources; or • legal action by our customers. 25 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our convertible debt imposes significant financial obligations upon us, and certain provisions of our convertible notes could discourage a change in control. In February 2007, we issued $175 million of convertible subordinated notes, of which $147 million was outstanding as of January 3, 2009. The notes are subordinated to all of our existing and future senior indebtedness. The notes mature on February 15, 2012 and bear interest at a rate of 2.5% per year, payable in cash semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. These notes are included in long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. Holders of the notes may convert their notes under certain specified circumstances which may occur prior to maturity, and upon conversion, a holder will receive cash in lieu of shares of our common stock for the value of the notes, as determined in the manner set forth in the indenture governing the notes. We may also be required to deliver additional cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock upon conversion. Our ability to meet our semiannual interest payment obligations under the notes and our cash payment obligations upon maturity or conversion of the notes will depend upon our future cash balances. The amount of cash available for repayment of the notes will depend on our usage of our existing cash balances and our operating performance and ability to generate cash flow from operations in future periods, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our obligations or otherwise are obligated to repay the notes prior to maturity, our available cash would be depleted, perhaps seriously, and our ability to fund operations may be harmed. In addition, certain provisions of our convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, which include a change in control, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes. The magnitude of the amount of any repurchase could discourage a third party from acquiring us. Changes in accounting rules relating to convertible debt securities, such as our convertible subordinated notes, will adversely affect our financial results. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Accounting Principles Board (APB) 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 requires the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects the non-convertible debt borrowing rate for interest expense recognition. In addition, direct issuance costs associated with the convertible debt instruments are required to be allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds and accounted for as debt issuance costs and equity issuance costs, respectively. FSP APB 14-1 will be effective for our fiscal year 2009, and interim periods within that fiscal year, and must be applied retrospectively. We expect that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will result in a non-cash increase in interest expense, net of the resulting tax impact, of $2.6 million and $3.0 million for 2007 and 2008, respectively, and will also result in significant increases in non-cash interest expense in each future period until the earlier of the conversion or redemption of the notes or their maturity in 2012. This increase in interest expense will adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Our products are subject to potential product liability claims which, if successful, could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our products may be hazardous if not operated properly or if defective. We are exposed to significant risks for product liability claims if property damage, personal injury or death results from the use of our products. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. We currently maintain insurance against product liability claims. However, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on terms that we accept, if at all. This insurance coverage also may not adequately cover liabilities that we incur. Further, if our products are 26 Table of Contents defective, we may be required to recall or redesign these products. A successful claim against us that exceeds our insurance coverage level, or any claim or product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting each year, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management each year on our internal control over financial reporting. This report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. This report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on such internal controls. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to and report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments, some of which will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. As such, the report may be uniquely difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our assessments. If we are unable to assert each year that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, if any unidentified material weaknesses were to result in fraudulent activity and/or a material misstatement or omission in our financial statements, we could suffer losses and be subject to civil and criminal penalties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties with our new global information technology system could harm our business. We completed a three-year implementation of a new global information technology system in 2008, and we have limited experience in maintaining and enhancing this system. Any system failure or malfunctioning, errors or misuse by system users, or inadequacy of the system in addressing the needs of our operations, could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately manufacture and ship products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such failure, errors, misuse or inadequacy could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process, report and evaluate key operations metrics and key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any such disruptions would likely divert our management and key employees’ attention away from other business matters. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our global information technology system could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with environmental regulations and potential environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial results. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. In the United States, we are subject to the federal regulation and control of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Comparable authorities are involved in other countries. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and 27 Table of Contents water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with the standards required by state and federal laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage (if any) and the resources of our business. Our Mountain View, California facility is an EPA-designated Superfund site and is subject to a cleanup and abatement order from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board. Spectra-Physics, along with several other entities with facilities located near the Mountain View, California facility, have been identified as Responsible Parties with respect to this Superfund site, due to releases of hazardous substances during the 1960s and 1970s. The site is mature, and investigations and remediation efforts have been ongoing for approximately 25 years. Spectra-Physics and the other Responsible Parties have entered into a cost-sharing agreement covering the costs of remediating the off-site groundwater impact. We have established reserves relating to the estimated cost of these remediation efforts, however our ultimate costs of remediation are difficult to predict. In addition, while we are not aware of any unresolved property damage or personal injury claims relating to this site, such claims could be made against us in the future. While Thermo has agreed in connection with our purchase of Spectra-Physics to indemnify us, subject to certain conditions, for certain environmental liabilities relating to this site, this indemnity may not cover all liabilities relating to this site. In such event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The environmental regulations to which we are subject, include a variety of federal, state, local and international environmental regulations restricting the use and disposal of materials used in the manufacture of our products, or requiring design changes or recycling of our products. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of manufacturing or a prohibition on the sale of products we manufacture. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to equip our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product and the management of historical waste. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. For example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) for implementation in each European Union member country. RoHS regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products, and WEEE requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products. The European Union member states continue to define the scope of the implementation of RoHS and WEEE Based on information we have received to date, certain of our products sold in these countries are or will likely be subject to RoHS and WEEE requirements. We will continue to monitor RoHS and WEEE guidance as it is announced by individual jurisdictions to determine our responsibilities. The guidance available to us to date suggests that in some instances we are not directly responsible for compliance with RoHS and WEEE because some of our products may be outside the scope of the directives. However, because the scope of the directives continues to expand in the course of implementation by the European Union member states, and because such products are sold under our brand name, we will likely be directly or contractually subject to such regulations in the case of many of our products. Also, final legislation from individual jurisdictions that have not yet implemented the directives may impose different or additional responsibilities upon us. We are also aware of similar legislation that is currently in force or being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan and China. Our failure to comply with any of such regulatory requirements or contractual obligations could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in these regions. 28 Table of Contents Natural disasters or power outages could disrupt or shut down our operations, which would negatively impact our operations. We are headquartered, and have significant operations, in the State of California and other areas where our operations are susceptible to damages from earthquakes, floods, fire, loss of power or water supplies, or other similar contingencies. We currently have comprehensive business continuation plans for our global information technology systems and for most of our operations and facilities, as well as disaster recovery procedures for our remaining operations and facilities. Despite these contingency plans and procedures, if any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss or significant power outages, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility, any of which would harm our business. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 