ITEM 1A Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Risks Involved in Oil and Gas Operations/Drilling and Development Our success depends heavily on market conditions and prices for oil and gas. Our success depends heavily upon our ability to market oil and gas production at favorable prices. In recent decades, there have been both periods of worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. As a result the world has experienced periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis; these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and to a lesser extent, natural gas. The excess or short supply of oil and gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations. The dramatic price decrease during the fourth quarter of 2008 has greatly decreased the value of 5 oil and gas reserves and the potential to profit from production of wells that were formerly considered commercially productive. The futures market for crude oil forecasts a significant increase in crude oil prices over the next six plus years, which if realized, would result in significant increases in reserves and profitable production. Estimating oil and gas reserves leads to uncertain results and thus our estimates of value of those reserves could be incorrect. Our reserves are annually evaluated by a qualified, independent engineering firm. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated in reserve reports that we periodically obtain from independent reserve engineers. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially change the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our proved reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and such variances may be material. Continued production of oil and gas depends on our ability to find or acquire additional reserves, which we may not be able to accomplish. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are produced. Except to the extent that we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploitation activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our ability to find or acquire additional reserves. The business of acquiring, enhancing or developing reserves is capital intensive. We require cash flow from operations as well as outside investments to fund our acquisition and development activities. If our cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. If as a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services may rise, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel may become severe in California and may materially and adversely affect us because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. Our oil and gas reserves are concentrated in California. Because we are not diversified geographically, local conditions may have a greater effect on us than on other companies. All of our oil and gas reserves are located in California. Because our reserves are not diversified geographically, our business is more subject to local conditions than other, more diversified companies. 6 Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous mechanical and environmental risks that could cause less production. These risks include the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered, that operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled and that title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment may limit our ability to develop, produce or market our reserves. New wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in the well. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. Industry operating risks include the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formation and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against these kinds of risks, but our level of insurance may not cover all losses in the event of a drilling or production catastrophe. Insurance is not available for all operational risks, such as risks that we will drill a dry hole, fail in an attempt to complete a well or have problems maintaining production from existing wells. Oil and gas activities can result in liability under federal, state, and local environmental regulations for activities involving among other things, water pollution and hazardous waste transport, storage and disposal. Such liability can attach not only to the operator of record of the well, but also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved. Environmental laws could subject us to liabilities for environmental damages even where we are not the operator who caused the environmental damage. Drilling is a speculative activity, because assessments of drilling prospects are inexact. The successful acquisition of oil and gas properties depends on our ability to assess recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Exploratory drilling remains a speculative activity. Even when fully utilized and properly interpreted, seismic data and other advanced technologies only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are in fact present. Therefore, our assessment of drilling prospects are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities and we generally acquire interests in the properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, the seller may not be able to fulfill its contractual obligation. In addition, competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources, which are substantially greater than ours. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire producing oil and gas properties which contain economically recoverable reserves or that we make such acquisitions at acceptable prices. 7 Governmental regulations make production more difficult and production costs higher. Domestic exploration for the production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry that often are difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states in which we operate also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of properties and the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells. Many state statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and gas could otherwise be produced from acquired properties. Some states have also enacted statutes proscribing ceiling prices for natural gas sold within their states. Our operations are also subject to numerous laws and regulations governing plugging and abandonment, the discharge of material into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The heavy regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing business and consequently affects its profitability. Any change in such laws, rules, regulations, or interpretations, may harm our financial condition or operating results. Risks Involved in Our Rig Operations Business Our rig operations have not had significant consistent revenue. Our operations began in 2006. We have not realized a high rig utilization to date, and we cannot predict when we may begin to see increased rig utilization. Due to the current industry downturn, our drilling rig is idle. However, we anticipate a ramp-up in geothermal activity due to government initiatives and funding in 2009-2012. Our rig operations may not be profitable due to: New, lower cost competitors; Low utilization of our rigs; and Write-downs of asset values. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the rig operations industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. While we employ a full time health, safety, environmental specialist and conduct employee meetings in those subjects, our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including: • Environmental hazards; and • Industrial accidents Such risks could result in: • Personal injury or fatalities; and • Environmental damage For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience, industry practice and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability. Risks Involved in Our Mineral Exploration Business 8 Our industrial mineral operations have not yet begun to realize significant revenue. Select was formed in late 2004. We realized no significant revenue from our investment in Select to date, and we cannot predict when, if ever, we may begin to see significant returns from these mining investments. Our mining operations may not be profitable. The economic value of mining operations may be adversely affected by: Declines or changes in demand; Declines in the market price of the various metals or minerals; Increased production or capital costs; Reductions in the availability of replacement equipment (such as tires), and reductions in the ability to make repairs, Increasing environmental and/or permitting requirements and government regulations; Reduction in the grade or tonnage of the deposit; Increase in the dilution of the ore; Reduced recovery rates; Delays in new project development; New, lower cost competitors; Reductions in reserves; and Write-downs of asset values. We have only one executive fully dedicated to Select. During 2007, our staff at Select resigned, and we had no employees dedicated full time to managing or developing our mineral properties. We did have one independent contractor, and one executive partially dedicated during the latter half of the year. In mid 2008, Select gained one dedicated full-time executive whose principal role was to monetize Select’s properties. Along with this executive, Select gained partially dedicated staff-level employees, but had no staff-level employees dedicated full-time to the development of Select’s properties. Select continued to utilize the independent contractor and hired one consultant. Any substantial development of any of Select’s properties would require the hiring of additional staff to oversee that development. We cannot be sure that we can hire qualified people at affordable prices to fill that need, or that consultants would be available and able to serve instead of employees. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including: • Environmental hazards; • Industrial accidents; 9 • Unusual or unexpected geologic formations; and • Unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: • Personal injury or fatalities; • Damage to or destruction of mineral properties or producing facilities; • Environmental damage; and • Delays in exploration, development or mining. We employ a full time credentialed specialist in health, safety, environmental and permitting functions. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience, industry practice and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, too expensive for us, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability. Risks Involved in Our Operations Generally Forward Looking Statements Some of the information in this 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate” and “continue,” or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss our future expectations; • contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; and • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict and/or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed in this section, other risk factors about which we may not be aware, as well as any cautionary language in this prospectus, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ability to Operate as a Going Concern - If we are unable to obtain additional funding our business operations will be harmed. Like many other companies coping with the unexpected and sudden global economic “meltdown”, Tri-Valley has experienced substantial changes in its capital and inflows of capital beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and extending into the first quarter of 2009. In addition to its current dependency on capital formation for operating and general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2009, Tri-Valley has several projects underway that will require capital for leasing and lease maintenance and repairs. A primary source for this capital has been investors in the TVOG Opus I Drilling Program LP. Although we have always been successful in the past at attracting sufficient capital, we do not know – particularly in the current 10 economic climate – if additional financing will be available when needed, or, if it is available, if it will be available on acceptable terms. Insufficient funds may prevent or limit us from implementing our business strategy. We had a cash balance of $2.0 million as of December 31, 2008, which has subsequently decreased. Current liabilities as of December 31, 2008 were $5.15 million which has subsequently increased. In light of this and other factors, our independent accountant has included a going concern qualification in its report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, noting that our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on additional sources of capital and the success of our business strategy. See Note 14 to our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008. The departure of any of our key personnel would slow our operation until we could fill the position again. Our success will depend in large part on the continued services of our president and chief executive officer, F. Lynn Blystone. Our employment agreement with Mr. Blystone has been formally extended through December 31, 2011 by the Board of Directors. The loss of his services would be particularly detrimental to us because of his background and experience in the oil and gas industry. We carry key man insurance of $500,000 on Mr. Blystone’s life. We also consider the president of our TVOG subsidiary, Joseph R. Kandle, to be a key employee whose loss would be detrimental to us because of his 44 years of oil and gas industry experience. We do not have an employment contract with Mr. Kandle. We carry key man life insurance of $1,000,000 on Mr. Kandle. Our success will also depend in large part on the continued services of Select’s president, James G. Bush. We do not have a letter agreement with Mr. Bush. The loss of his services would be particularly detrimental to us because of his background and experience in three key component industries, the oil and gas industry, the minerals industry, and the environmental industry. We carry key man insurance of $500,000 on Mr. Bush’s life. Another former key employee, Thomas J. Cunningham, retired effective January 15, 2008. Mr. Cunningham’s experience in the oil and gas industry was also considered important to us, but we found and hired an outstanding candidate, Maston Cunningham (no relation) in January 2009. 