ITEM 1A Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form, 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Risks Involved in Oil and Gas Operations Our success depends heavily on market conditions and prices for oil and gas. Our success depends heavily upon our ability to market oil and gas production at favorable prices. In recent decades, there have been both periods of worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. As a result the world has experienced periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis; these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and to a lesser extent, natural gas. The excess or short supply of oil and gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations. Estimating oil and gas reserves leads to uncertain results and thus our estimates of value of those reserves could be incorrect. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated in reserve reports that we periodically obtain from independent reserve engineers. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially change the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our proved reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and such variances may be material. Continued production of oil and gas depends on our ability to find or acquire additional reserves, which we may not be able to find. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are produced. Except to the extent that we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploitation activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our ability to find or acquire additional reserves. The business of acquiring, enhancing or developing reserves is capital intensive. We require cash flow from operations as well as outside investments to fund our acquisition and development activities. If our cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. As a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services has risen, and the costs of these services are increasing, while the quality of these services may suffer. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel has become particularly severe in California and has materially and adversely affected us because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. In late 2005, in order to counter-act the rig shortage, we purchased a production rig of our own in order to perform necessary workover operations and we plan to acquire more including rigs with drilling capability. Our oil and gas reserves are concentrated in California. Because we are not diversified geographically, local conditions may have a greater effect on us than on other companies. Substantially all of our oil and gas reserves are located in California. Because our reserves are not diversified geographically, our business is more subject to local conditions than other, more diversified companies. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous mechanical and environmental risks that could cause less production. These risks include the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered, that operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled and that title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment may limit our ability to develop, produce or market our reserves. New wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion or our investment in the well. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. Industry operating risks include the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formation and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against these kinds of risks, but our level of insurance may not cover all losses in the event of a drilling or production catastrophe. Insurance is not available for all operational risks, such as risks that we will drill a dry hole, fail in an attempt to complete a well or have problems maintaining production from existing wells. Oil and gas activities can result in liability under federal, state, and local environmental regulations for activities involving among other things, water pollution and hazardous waste transport, storage and disposal. Such liability can attach not only to the operator of record of the well, but also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved. Environmental laws could subject us to liabilities for environmental damages even where we are not the operator who caused the environmental damage. Drilling is a speculative activity, because assessments of drilling prospects are inexact. The successful acquisition of oil and gas properties depends on our ability to assess recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Exploratory drilling remains a speculative activity. Even when fully utilized and properly interpreted, seismic data and other advanced technologies only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are in fact present. Therefore, our assessment of drilling prospects are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities and we generally acquire interests in the properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, the seller may not be able to fulfill its contractual obligation. In addition, competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources, which are substantially greater than ours. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire producing oil and gas properties which contain economically recoverable reserves or that we make such acquisitions at acceptable prices. Governmental regulations make production more difficult and production costs higher. Domestic exploration for the production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry which often are difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statues and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states in which we operate also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of properties and the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells. Many state statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and gas could otherwise be produced from acquired properties. Some states have also enacted statutes proscribing ceiling prices for natural gas sold within their states. Our operations are also subject to numerous laws and regulations governing plugging and abandonment, the discharge of material into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The heavy regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing business and consequently affects its profitability. Any change in such laws, rules, regulations, or interpretations, may harm our financial condition or operating results. Risks Involved in Our Mineral Exploration Business Our industrial mineral operations have not yet begun to realize significant revenue. Select Resources was formed in late 2004. Beginning in 2005, we have invested a significant amount of capital in Select to enter into a joint venture for the development and operation of industrial minerals deposits near Bakersfield, California and to acquire a calcium carbonate mine near Ketchikan, Alaska. The first of these developments, the Monarch calcium carbonate deposit and the Boron basalt and cinder deposits, near Bakersfield, are expected to begin producing and selling minerals during 2006. We have realized no significant revenue from our investment in Select Resources to date, and even after production and sales actually begin we will not be sure whether the mining operations will be economically viable due to changing market conditions, production and sales history, varying customer demands, competition, and other factors associated with new industrial mineral ventures. Our mining operations may not be profitable. The economic value of mining operations may be adversely affected by: • Declines or changes in demand; • Declines in the market price of the various metals or minerals; • Increased production or capital costs; • Reduction in the grade or tonnage of the deposit; • Increase in the dilution of the ore; and • Reduced recovery rates; • Delays in new project development; • New, lower cost competitors; • Net losses; • Reduced cash flow; • Reductions in reserves; and • Write-downs of asset values. Our joint development and operating arrangements may not be successful. Through Select Resources, we have entered a 50/50 joint venture with Trans-Western Materials, LLC, a private company holding leases on various industrial mineral deposits. As in a typical joint venture arrangement, the partners own a proportionate share of the assets, are entitled to indemnification from each other party and are only responsible for any future liabilities in proportion to its interest in the joint venture. If Trans-Western Materials fails to perform its obligations under the joint venture agreement, we could incur liabilities and losses in excess of our pro-rata share of the joint venture. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including: • Environmental hazards; • Industrial accidents; • Unusual or unexpected geologic formations; • Unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: • Personal injury or fatalities; • Damage to or destruction of mineral properties or producing facilities; • Environmental damage; • Delays in exploration, development or mining; • Monetary losses; and • Legal liability. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience, industry practice and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, too expensive for us, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability. Risks Involved in Our Operations Generally There are risks associated with forward-looking statements made by us and actual results may differ. Some of the information in this 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate” and “continue,” or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss our future expectations; • contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; and • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict and/or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed in this section, other risk factors about which we may not be aware, as well as any cautionary language in this prospectus, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain additional funding our business operations will be harmed. We believe that our current cash position and estimated 2006 cash from operations will not be sufficient to meet our current estimated operating and general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures through the end of fiscal year 2006. As a result, the Company will require additional funding. Although we have always been successful in the past in attracting sufficient capital, we do not know if additional financing will be available when needed, or if it is available, if it will be available on acceptable terms. Insufficient funds may prevent us from implementing our business strategy. The departure of any of our key personnel would slow our operation until we could fill the position again. Our success will depend in large part on the continued services of our president and chief executive officer, F. Lynn Blystone. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Blystone which ends at the end of 2006. The loss of his services would be particularly detrimental to us because of his background and experience in the oil and gas industry. We carry key man insurance of $500,000 on Mr. Blystone’s life. We also consider our chief administrative officer, Thomas J. Cunningham, and the president of our Tri-Valley Oil and Gas subsidiary, Joseph R. Kandle, to be key employees whose loss would be detrimental to us because of their oil and gas industry experience. We do not have employment contracts with either Mr. Cunningham or Mr. Kandle. We carry key man life insurance of $1,000,000 on Mr. Kandle, and no key man insurance on Mr. Cunningham. We consider the president of our mining subsidiary, Dr. Henry J. Sandri, to also be a key employee. We have no employment contract in place but carry a key man life insurance policy of $1,000,000. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, may adversely affect our ability to timely and accurately meet our financial reporting responsibilities. As reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and subsequently in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2005, as amended, and June 30, 2005, we identified deficiencies that were symptomatic of and contributed to the overall material weakness relating to the financial statement close process identified in our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. As indicated in Item 9A, we have hired additional personnel and undertaken a process to remediate the remaining deficiencies and believe that these former deficiencies have been remediated. However, 2006 is the first full year for which our improved procedures are in place, and we may discover that additional deficiencies exist or that prior problems may not be fully solved. Weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could cause us to improperly record our financial results and operating results and could result in management errors or omissions to our detriment. ITEM 