ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Involved in our Business Generally If we are unable to obtain additional funding, our business and financial condition will be materially impaired, and we will likely not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $72.8 million, a cash balance of approximately $0.6 million, and negative working capital of $6.7 million. Our independent accountants included a going concern qualification in their report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, noting that our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on additional sources of capital and the success of our business strategy. Our current available cash, along with revenues generated from operations and proceeds from the sale of assets, if any, are not sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the next twelve months without additional equity or debt financing. We plan to make substantial capital expenditures in the future for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation and development of oil and natural gas properties. However, we may not be able to attain production levels and support our costs through revenues derived from operations. Given that our available cash and projected revenue levels are not sufficient to sustain our operations, we will need to raise additional capital to fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our working capital requirements, we will be required to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. We may not be successful in raising additional capital or securing financing when needed or on terms satisfactory to us and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, we will need to reduce costs and operations substantially, file for bankruptcy or liquidate and dissolve. Cooperation with the SEC staff’s inquiry into possible violations of federal securities laws could cost significant amounts of money and management resources. On February 2, 2012, Tri-Valley and OPUS, of which we are the managing partner, each received a subpoena issued by the staff of the SEC seeking documents and data for the period from January 1, 2002 to the present, relating to their financial condition, results of operations, transactions, activities, business, and offer and sale of securities of the Company and OPUS. The SEC staff is conducting a non-public fact-finding inquiry into possible violations of the federal securities laws, and this investigation does not represent a conclusion by the staff that there have been any violations of the federal securities laws nor whether the staff would conclude that any enforcement action is appropriate. We are cooperating with the staff's request and are in the process of responding to the subpoena. We have also consulted with the OPUS Special Committee on this matter. We are unable to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by the SEC or its staff as a result of the matters that are the subject of these subpoenas or what impact the cost of responding to this staff inquiry might have on us. If and to the extent we incur substantial costs related to the staff’s inquiry, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Further, this matter may continue to cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 We face various risks related to our restatements. On October 24, 2011, we publicly announced that we had discovered accounting inaccuracies in previously reported financial statements. Following consultation with our auditors, and with the concurrence of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, we decided to restate our financial statements for (i) the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 included in the Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 2, 2010, (ii) the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010 included in the Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 3, 2010, (iii) the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 included in the Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 22, 2011, (iv) the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011 included in the Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 9, 2011 and (v) the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011 included in the Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 19, 2011. These financial statements needed to be restated to correct (a) the valuation of, and accounting for, the common stock and warrants issued by the Company in a registered direct offering of securities in April 2010, (b) the accounting for incremental and direct costs incurred to issue common stock in connection with the Company's April 2011 private placement and various at-the-market offerings of common stock, and (c) the accounting for the acquisition of certain steam generator assets from OPUS. Additionally, the restatement of these financial statements could lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty raising equity capital or obtaining other financing, such as lines of credit or otherwise. We may be subject to resignation of our current external auditors which may, among other things, cause a delay in the preparation of future financial statements and increase expenditures related to the retention of new external auditors and the lead time required to become familiar with our operations. The process of retaining new external auditors may limit our access to the capital markets for an extended period of time. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from our stockholders, creditors or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline, and could result in a delisting of our securities from the NYSE Amex. Risks Involved in our Oil and Gas Operations Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and change for reasons that are beyond our control, and decreases in the price we receive for our oil and natural gas production adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity Our operating results depend heavily upon our ability to market our crude oil and natural gas production at favorable prices, and the prices of the commodities we sell are, to a significant extent, beyond our control. The factors influencing the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production include, without limitation, changes in consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, production disruptions, OPEC actions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, the price, availability and consumer acceptance of alternative fuel sources, the availability of refining capacity, technological advances affecting energy consumption, weather conditions, speculative activity, financial and commercial market uncertainty and worldwide economic conditions. Any decline in the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production will adversely affect various aspects of our business, including our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, liquidity, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, all of which depend primarily or in part upon those prices. Declines in the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas will also adversely affect our ability to finance capital expenditures, make acquisitions, raise capital and satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, declines in prices reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, adversely affect our quantities of proved reserves. Among other things, a reduction in our reserves can limit the capital available to us, because the availability of sources of capital likely will be based, in large part, on the estimated quantities of those reserves. Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves could materially impair the quantity and value of those reserves. Our reserves are annually evaluated by a qualified, independent reserves engineering firm. The reserve data included in our various filings we make with the SEC from time to time represent estimates only. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise and could prove to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracy could materially affect, among other things, future estimates of our reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to our properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of our future net cash flows. 9 You should not assume that the present values referred to in this Annual Report represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The timing and success of the production and the expenses related to the development of oil and natural gas properties, each of which is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, will affect the timing and amount of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In addition, our present value estimates are based on assumed future prices and costs. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the assumed prices and costs. Further, the effect of derivative instruments, if any, is not reflected in these assumed prices. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor to calculate the present value of projected future net income may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Unless we successfully add to our existing proved reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will decline, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we perform successful exploration, development, or acquisition activities, or identify, through engineering studies, additional or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as we produce crude oil and natural gas. Likewise, if we are not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas we produce with good prospects for future production, our business will experience reduced cash flow and results of operations. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with the seller, finance the acquisition, or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If we are unable to complete suitable acquisitions, it will be more difficult to replace our reserves, and an inability to replace our reserves would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our production, results of operations and financial condition. Exploration, exploitation and development activities are subject to numerous risks, the occurrence of any of which may materially limit our ability to develop, produce, or market our reserves. Such risks include, without limitation: ● no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs may be found; ● title problems; ● adverse weather conditions; ● problems in delivery of our oil and natural gas to market; ● equipment failures or accidents; ● fire, explosions, blow-outs, and pipe failure; ● compliance with governmental and regulatory requirements; ● environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures, or discharges of hazardous substances; and ● shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment. Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry holes but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient oil or natural gas to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or that it can be produced economically. In addition, the cost of exploration, exploitation and development activities is subject to numerous uncertainties, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against the kinds of hazards and risks noted above, but our level of insurance may not cover all losses in the event of a drilling or production adverse event. Insurance is not available for all operational risks, such as risks that we will drill a dry hole, fail in an attempt to complete a well, or have problems maintaining production from existing wells. Furthermore, the insurance we do have may not continue to be available on acceptable terms. We could also, in some circumstances, have liability for actions taken by third parties over which we have no or limited control, including operators of properties in which we have an interest. The occurrence of an uninsured or underinsured loss could result in significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, maintenance activities undertaken to reduce operational risks can be costly and can require exploration, exploitation and development operations to be curtailed while those activities are being completed. 10 On December 6, 2011, we were served with a lawsuit that was filed against us and our wholly owned subsidiary, TVOG, on November 29, 2011 in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Ventura, Case No. 56-2011-00407515-CU-BC-VTA. The plaintiff, Pleasant Valley Ranch, LLC, or Pleasant Valley Ranch, is suing us for damages on the alleged grounds that, among other things, our oil and gas production operations caused contamination of soil and groundwater on the Pleasant Valley Ranch’s property and interfered with the sale of such property. Pleasant Valley Ranch is seeking to recover damages of at least $8.0 million from us and to rescind our drill site surface lease. We believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend the lawsuit. However, we cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit or the ultimate costs of defense. As of March 31, 2012, we had incurred approximately $0.8 million in costs relating to this matter. Approximately $0.4 million of these costs have been reviewed by our insurance carrier, of which $0.3 million of these costs have been approved for coverage by insurance. We will continue to seek to recover as much of our future costs through our insurance carrier as we can. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, that can make production more difficult, increase production costs and limit our growth. Our operations and facilities are extensively regulated at the federal, state and local levels. Laws and regulations applicable to us include those relating to: ● land use restrictions; ● drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements; ● spacing of wells; ● emissions into the air; ● habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation; ● the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials; ● the use of underground storage tanks; ● transportation and drilling permits; ● the use of underground injection wells, which affects the disposal of water from our wells; ● safety precautions; ● the prevention of oil spills; ● the closure of production facilities; ● operational reporting; and ● taxation and royalties. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations. Our operations could result in liability under federal, state, and local regulations for: ● personal injuries; ● property and natural resource damages; ● releases or discharges of hazardous materials; ● well reclamation costs; ● oil spill clean-up costs; ● other remediation and clean-up costs; ● plugging and abandonment costs; and ● governmental and regulatory sanctions, such as fines and penalties. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities, delays in receipt of required operational permits, and suspension or termination of operations. Certain liability can attach to the operator of record of the well and also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved. Thus, such laws and regulations could subject us to liabilities even where we are not the operator who caused the damage. 11 Changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase our costs, reduce demand for our production, impede our ability to conduct operations or have other adverse effects on our business. Future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may make it more difficult or expensive to conduct our operations and may have other adverse effects on us. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows the EPA to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress is considering "cap and trade" legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission "allowances" corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. On September 27, 2006, California's governor signed into law Assembly Bill (AB) 32, known as the "California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006," which establishes a statewide cap on GHGs that will reduce the state's GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and establishes a "cap and trade" program. The California Air Resources Board has been designated as the lead agency to establish and adopt regulations to implement AB 32. Similar regulations may be adopted by the federal government. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. We could also be adversely affected by future changes to applicable tax laws and regulations. For example, proposals have been made to amend federal and/or California law to impose "windfall profits," severance or other taxes on oil and natural gas companies. If any of these proposals become law, our costs would increase, possibly materially. Significant financial difficulties currently facing the State of California may increase the likelihood that one or more of these proposals will become law. From time to time, legislative proposals are introduced that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could defer or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our oil and gas reserves are concentrated in California. All of our oil and gas reserves are located in the State of California. Accordingly, factors affecting our industry or the State of California in which we operate, will likely impact us more acutely than if our business was more diversified geographically. The marketability of our production is dependent upon the availability of drilling rigs, gathering systems, transportation facilities and processing facilities that we do not control, and if these facilities or systems become unavailable, our operations can be interrupted and our revenues reduced. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of drilling rigs, pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, transportation barges and processing facilities owned by third parties. In general, we do not control these facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied due to circumstances beyond our control. A significant disruption in the availability of these facilities could adversely impact our ability to produce oil and natural gas, or to deliver to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. In some cases, our ability to deliver to market our oil and natural gas is dependent upon coordination among third parties who own transportation and processing facilities we use, and any inability or unwillingness of those parties to coordinate efficiently could also interrupt our operations. These are risks for which we generally do not maintain insurance. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely for our oil and gas operations are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct such operations. Our ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities on ongoing or newly discovered oil and gas projects, and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements, may depend on developing and/or maintaining effective working relationships with industry participants, joint venture partners and other investors. Our success may also depend on our ability to select and evaluate new partners and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to establish these strategic or joint venture relationships, or if established, we may choose the wrong partner or we may not be able to maintain them on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic or joint venture partners and investors may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to take to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships with such partners. If our strategic relationships or joint venture relationships are not established or maintained, or if they are required to change to accommodate changes in circumstances, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations and our ability to generate revenues from these operations. 12 In addition, in cases where we are the operator, our partners may not be able to fulfill their obligations, which would require us to either take on their obligations in addition to our own, or possibly forfeit our rights to the area involved in the joint venture. In addition, despite our partner’s failure to fulfill its obligations, if we elect to terminate such relationship, we may be involved in litigation with such partners or may be required to pay amounts in settlement to avoid litigation despite such partner’s failure to perform. Alternatively, our partners may be able to fulfill their obligations, but will not agree with our proposals as operator of the property. In this case there could be disagreements between joint venture partners that could be costly in terms of dollars, time, deterioration of the partner relationship, and/or our reputation as a reputable operator. In cases where we are not the operator of the joint venture, the success of the projects held under these joint ventures is substantially dependent on our joint venture partners. The operator is responsible for day-to-day operations, safety, environmental compliance and relationships with government and vendors. Our share of net revenues and cash distributions, if any, from the new Pleasant Valley limited liability company will be significantly reduced for the foreseeable future. In August 2011, we entered into a term sheet with the OPUS Special Committee in connection with the formation of a new jointly-owned, limited liability company to carry forward the development of Pleasant Valley and the resolution of alleged claims first brought to our attention by OPUS partner, G. Robert Miller, in August 2010. These claims relate to alleged breaches of the governing partnership agreements by Tri-Valley from 2002 to 2009. Such claims, which we refer to as the “Alleged Claims,” include allegations relating to charges to OPUS for (i) oil and gas lease acquisition and title defense costs, (ii) turnkey drilling and well completion costs, (iii) fees for the work performed by finders who assisted in the placement of partnership units, (iv) improper distributions to an OPUS partner, and (v) accrued interest on the foregoing amounts over certain periods of time. In furtherance of the amicable resolution of the Alleged Claims, we and the OPUS Special Committee have tentatively agreed, for settlement purposes, to a framework for a revision of terms based on a settlement of the Alleged Claims which would result in a significant reduction in our share of any net revenues and distributable cash flow from the new limited liability for a period of years. As an additional inducement to settle the Alleged Claims, we would also assign to OPUS working interests in certain undeveloped mineral and oil and gas properties. Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the revised terms with the OPUS Special Committee is subject to, but not limited to, the negotiation and execution of definitive agreements, and the ratification of the settlement terms and operating structure of the new limited liability company by our Board of Directors and at least a majority in interest of the OPUS partners (“Closing”). In accordance with the framework of the revision of terms, the Alleged Claims would be settled at Closing and OPUS and Tri-Valley would disproportionally share the net cash flow generated by the limited liability company during the OPUS Preferred Return Period. Our disproportionate sharing percentages during the OPUS Preferred Return Period have yet to be determined, but we expect that our allocable share of any distributable cash from profits generated by the Pleasant Valley project will significantly decrease, at least for the foreseeable future, in connection with the restructuring of OPUS and the settlement of Alleged Claims with OPUS. After this time period, OPUS and we would receive 75% and 25%, respectively, of any net revenues and distributable cash flow from the limited liability company. Accordingly, until completion of the OPUS Preferred Return Period, we will be largely dependent on the success of our other, non-Pleasant Valley related projects and capital-raising initiatives to cover our operating expenses and fund our working capital requirements. The OPUS partners may still try to bring lawsuits against us. We expect that the existing tolling agreement executed in September 2010 with G. Robert Miller will be replaced by a new tolling agreement. The new tolling agreement, to be put in place by Mr. Miller for the benefit of all OPUS partners, will be designed to limit the threat of litigation during the OPUS Preferred Return Period. While the Alleged Claims of OPUS as an entity will be settled at Closing under the revised terms, individual OPUS partners may still try to bring claims against us. See the risk factor below captioned, “There can be no assurance that the transaction agreed to between Tri-Valley and the OPUS Special Committee will be approved and consummated, or, even if consummated, that we will not still face claims or suits from dissident OPUS partners or Tri-Valley stockholders.” However, in order to obtain the benefits of the new tolling agreement, including our willingness to waive time-related defenses, the OPUS partners will need to refrain from initiating any such litigation, arbitration, or other formal proceeding against us or any of our affiliates (including current and former officers and directors), during the OPUS Preferred Return Period. However, we cannot be certain that dissident OPUS partners will not initiate such actions against us or any of our affiliates during the OPUS Preferred Return Period, or thereafter. Ultimately, the extent of success of the Pleasant Valley project depends, in part, on the success of our deployment of the Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage, or SAGD, technology in connection with Pleasant Valley. As previously disclosed, Pleasant Valley is an unconventional heavy oil project. Our computer modeling predicts that maximum recovery of original oil in place depends on the success of the SAGD extraction technology. However, we have not yet tested the SAGD technology, and we cannot guarantee that the success demonstrated in the computer modeling will be duplicated when actually deployed. Any significant delay or failure to deploy and successfully utilize the SAGD technology at Pleasant Valley could substantially delay and/or minimize the success of the project. 13 There can be no assurance that the transaction agreed to between Tri-Valley and the OPUS Special Committee will be approved and consummated, or, even if consummated, that we will not still face claims or suits from dissident OPUS partners or Tri-Valley stockholders. Consummation of the transactions contemplated by the revised terms with the OPUS Special Committee is subject to a number of conditions being satisfied, including, but not limited to, the negotiation and execution of definitive agreements, the ratification of the settlement terms and new operating structure by the Board of Directors of Tri-Valley and at least a majority in interest of the OPUS partners (not including the interests held by affiliates of Tri-Valley), our ability to either provide or obtain a financing commitment for the new limited liability company to fund three new SAGD wells, and no court order or regulatory action enjoining the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the revised term sheet. While we and the OPUS Special Committee expect to be able to negotiate and execute definitive agreements, there are no assurances that a majority in interest of the OPUS partners (not including the interests held by affiliates of Tri-Valley) will find the transaction acceptable or consent to the transaction. If not approved by OPUS partners, we will be required to pursue a different solution to resolve the Alleged Claims. In such an event, there can be no assurance about when we would be able to resolve the disputed issues or about how much time and resources it might take to resolve them, whether through mutually agreeable and satisfactory resolution or through formal legal proceedings. As part of the transaction, we will be required to provide or obtain a financing commitment for the new limited liability company to fund three SAGD well pairs, comprised of a one-well SAGD pilot project and, if the SAGD pilot project is successful and meets certain performance standards, two additional SAGD well pairs. Should we fail to satisfy this condition for any reason, we will likely be required to pursue a different solution to resolve the Alleged Claims. Moreover, any lawsuits filed against us seeking to enjoin the transaction, from either a dissident OPUS partner and/or Tri-Valley stockholder, could delay or prevent the transaction from moving forward and closing. Additionally, even if the transaction closes, a dissident OPUS partner and/or Tri-Valley stockholder could still attempt to bring a lawsuit against us relating to, among other things, the terms of the transaction, and/or any other alleged claims that were not addressed to the satisfaction of the claimant. Certain OPUS partners have expressed discontent with the previously proposed settlement terms and have threatened to sue the Company and/or report their allegations to federal and state regulators. The threatened claims include allegations of fraudulent inducement to contract, violations of applicable federal and state broker-dealer registration rules, and violations of federal and state antifraud rules in connection with the sale of OPUS securities. We continue to believe that the framework for settlement terms negotiated with the OPUS Special Committee are fair and reasonable in light of all known facts and circumstances. However, we cannot predict the possible outcome, nor quantify the effect, of such a suit or the costs of defense if a threatened suit is actually filed. If such a suit is filed, we will analyze any and all defenses we might have relating thereto. Lawsuits can be very time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and, therefore, if we become involved in litigation, or if the outcome is adverse to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The OPUS transaction could make it more difficult for us to secure financing. As previously discussed, because of the significant reduction in our sharing of net revenues and cash distributions from the new Pleasant Valley limited liability company during the OPUS Preferred Return Period, we will be dependent on the success of our other, non-Pleasant Valley related projects and capital-raising initiatives to cover our operating expenses and fund our working capital requirements. This dependency could reduce our ability to cover debt service in any potential future debt financing. Likewise, if our available cash and projected revenue levels are not sufficient to sustain our operations, we will need to raise additional capital to fund operations and to meet our obligations in the future. To meet our financing requirements, we may raise funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or strategic alliances. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution in their ownership interests, and new investors may have rights superior to the rights of our other stockholders. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities and options. We may not be successful in raising additional capital or securing financing when needed or on terms satisfactory to us, in which event we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, or on acceptable terms, we will need to reduce costs and operations substantially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or file for bankruptcy or liquidate and dissolve. 14 Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense and may adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas, integrating new technologies and employing skilled personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be willing and able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties than our financial resources permit, and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties. Our competitors may also enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future with respect to acquiring unproved reserves, developing reserves, marketing our production, attracting and retaining qualified personnel, implementing new technologies and raising additional capital. Risks Involved in Our Minerals Business Our minerals business has not yet realized significant revenue, is not presently profitable and may never become profitable. We formed Select Resources Corporation, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, in late 2004 to manage our precious metals and industrial minerals properties in Alaska. The precious metal properties will require substantial investment to discover and delineate sufficient mineral resources to justify any future commercial development. To date, we have realized no significant revenue from our mineral properties in Alaska and cannot predict when, if ever, we may see significant returns from our precious metal investments. The value of our minerals business depends on numerous factors not under our control. The economic value of our minerals business may be adversely affected by changes in commodity prices for gold, increases in production and/or capital costs, and increased environmental or permitting requirements by federal and state governments. If our mineral properties commence production, our operating results and cash flow may be impaired by reductions in forecast grade or tonnage of the deposits, dilution of the mineral content of the ore, reduction in recovery rates, and a reduction in reserves, as well as unforeseen delays in the development of our projects. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely for our mineral exploration operations in the State of Alaska are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct such operations. Our ability to successfully develop our mineral exploration business in Alaska depends on our ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with industry participants, joint venture partners and other investors. Our success may also depend on our ability to select and evaluate new exploration partners and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to establish these strategic or joint venture relationships, or if established, we may choose the wrong partner or we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic or joint venture partners and investors may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to take to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships with such partners, the failure of which could, among other things, dilute our economic interests in the strategic or joint venture relationship. If our strategic relationships or joint venture relationships are not established or maintained, or if they are required to change to accommodate changes in circumstances, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our mineral exploration operations and our ability to generate revenues from these operations. The value of our minerals business may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our minerals business is subject to a number of risks, hazards and uncertainties including, but not limited to: ● title problems; ● invalidity of claims owned and/or claims leased; ● substantial delays prior to the time that revenues can be generated from mining exploration; ● equipment failures or accidents; ● compliance with governmental and regulatory requirements; ● environmental hazards; ● unusual or unexpected geologic formations; 15 ● unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding; and ● periodic interruptions caused by inclement or hazardous weather conditions. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against the kinds of hazards and risks noted above, but our level of insurance may not cover all losses in the event of an adverse event. Insurance is not available for all operational mining exploration risks. For example, insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, unaffordable. Therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Our stock price during the twelve months ended March 31, 2012, traded as low as $0.13 per share and as high as $0.83 per share. We cannot assure you that your investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those risks outlined elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, the stock market in general, including companies whose stock is listed on the NYSE Amex, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since we have not paid dividends on our common stock, you may not receive income from your investment. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. The sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock (including, without limitation, shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock) may cause substantial fluctuations in the price of our common stock, especially in light of the relatively low volume in our stock. Additional financings could result in dilution to existing stockholders and otherwise adversely impact the rights of our common stockholders. Additional financings that we may require in the future will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders and may adversely affect our earnings and net book value per share. In addition, we may not be able to secure any such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of warrants or debt obligations which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of ownership interests. Subject to compliance with the requirements of the NYSE Amex, such securities may be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders. Moreover, we may issue undesignated shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors and which terms may be preferential to the interests of our common stockholders. We have issued preferred stock in the past, and our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more additional series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that impact our ability to conduct our business. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock or debt securities may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock. Our stockholder rights plan, provisions in our charter documents, and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, and could entrench management. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, thereby entrenching current management and possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: 16 ● the ability of the Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; ● advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors; ● limitations on stockholders’ ability call a special meeting of stockholders unless requested in writing by holders owning a majority in amount of the capital stock of the Company issued and outstanding; and ● special voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of our bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, our stockholder rights plan, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and certain provisions of Delaware law, may singularly and/or collectively make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex is subject to compliance with its continued listing requirements. While we have not received any notice of intent to delist our common stock, we have received a warning letter that we were not in compliance with a certain NYSE Amex listing standard. If our common stock were to be delisted, the ability of investors in our common stock to make transactions in such stock would be limited. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex, LLC, or NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. Continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex requires us to meet continued listing requirements set forth in the NYSE Amex’s Company Guide. These requirements include both quantitative standards (such as those relating to the selling price of the listed security and a minimum level of stockholders’ equity) and qualitative standards (such as those relating to a listed company’s financial condition generally). On November 14, 2011, we received a warning letter from NYSE Amex indicating that we are not in compliance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide. NYSE Amex is concerned that, as a result of its low selling price over a continued period of time our common stock may not be suitable for auction market trading. Therefore, if there is not a suitable increase in the selling price of our common stock before we prepare and mail our proxy statement relating to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, we will likely be required to seek stockholder approval at such meeting to effect a reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock in order to address NYSE Amex’s concern. Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide requires a company to maintain a minimum of $6.0 million in stockholders’ equity, if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. As of December 31, 2011, our stockholders’ equity was $4.4 million. If we are unable to raise our shareholders’ equity above the minimum stockholders’ equity threshold, we will likely be required to submit a plan to regain compliance with NYSE Amex rules. If we were unable to submit a plan or if the plan is not accepted by the exchange, we could be subject to delisting procedures. As is the case for all listed issuers, our continued listing eligibility will be assessed on an ongoing basis. Investors should be aware that if the NYSE Amex were to delist our common stock from trading on its exchange, this would limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted by NYSE Amex, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink OTC Markets. In such an event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, if we were to be delisted from NYSE Amex, it could constitute an event of default under any financing covenants to which we may then be subject, which could also trigger a default under any such contractual covenants. Other Risks Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends, in large part, on the continued contribution of our key executives. In particular, we currently rely heavily on Maston N. Cunningham, our chief executive officer, and Gregory L. Billinger, our interim chief financial officer. We expect to conduct a search for a candidate to fill the position of chief financial officer on a permanent basis sometime in the second quarter of 2012. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could substantially harm our business and our ability to execute on our business plan. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 