ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as, adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Changing global and local commodity pricing strongly impacts the Company’s operating results. Our operating results depend heavily upon our ability to market our crude oil and natural gas production at favorable prices. The factors influencing the prices of the commodities we sell are beyond our control, including changes in consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, production disruptions, OPEC actions, and other factors that impact supply and demand for oil and gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices may reduce the amount of these commodities we can economically develop and produce, and, in turn, may have a material, adverse effect on the carrying value of our assets, reserves, and operating results. Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves could impair the quantity and value of those reserves. Our proved crude oil and natural gas reserves depend on estimates that include reservoir characteristics and recoverability, as well as capital and operating costs. Any changes in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of these items could result in a material, negative impact to the volume of reserves reported. Unless we successfully add to our existing proved reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will decline, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we perform successful exploration, development, or acquisition activities, or through engineering studies, identify additional or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as we produce crude oil and natural gas. Likewise, if we are not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas we produce with good prospects for future production, our business will experience reduced cash flow and results of operations. As our rates of production have been relatively low, our risk of reserve depletion is, likewise, low for the immediate future. We have a current need for development capital. Without such capital, our ability to increase production will be hindered. Crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous mechanical and environmental risks that could reduce production. In addition to the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs may be found, our operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled. Title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental regulations, mechanical difficulties, and shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment may limit our ability to develop, produce, or market our reserves. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas may result in losses, not only as a result of drilling dry wells but also from wells that are productive but produce insufficient net revenues to be profitable on a full-cost basis. Likewise, our properties may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. Our business operating risks include, but are not limited to, the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally-pressured formations; as well as environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures, or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against these kinds of risks, but our level of insurance may not cover all losses in the event of a drilling or production catastrophe. Insurance is not available for all operational risks, such as risks that we will drill a dry hole, fail in an attempt to complete a well, or have problems maintaining production from existing wells. Crude oil and natural gas operations can result in liability under federal, state, and local environmental regulations for activities involving, among other things, water pollution and hazardous waste transport, storage, and disposal. Such liability can attach to the operator of record of the well and also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved. Thus, environmental laws could subject us to liabilities for environmental damages even where we are not the operator who caused the environmental damage. 4 Future governmental and environmental regulations may increase our costs of production, impact or limit our current business plans, and reduce demand for our products. As explained in detail in Part I, Item 1. Governmental Regulation, and in Item 1. Environmental Regulation, United States exploration for the production and sale of crude oil and natural gas is extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Our oil and gas business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations. Any change in such laws, rules, regulations, or interpretations, may have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, and cash flow. Additionally, we could be adversely affected by potential legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases” or use of fossil fuels, the adoption of which may increase our costs to find, develop, and produce crude oil and natural gas in the future. Currently pending lawsuit threatens to limit potential development of a significant and valuable heavy oil project. A legal action is currently pending against us that might result in the termination of our 2009 Scholle Leases in the Hansen portion of our Pleasant Valley Project. Please see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Drilling and production operations have not yet commenced in the Hansen portion of our Pleasant Valley Project. We believe that the Hansen portion of our Pleasant Valley Project has significant potential for development, but if the plaintiffs are successful in terminating the 2009 Scholle Leases, our potential for future development in the Pleasant Valley Field will be significantly impaired. We are vigorously pursuing and defending this lawsuit, as we believe that we have valid claims and defenses. The litigation involves one of our three development opportunities in the Pleasant Valley Field. Our drilling rig operations have not had significant consistent revenue. Our Nevada-based drilling rig operations began in 2006, and to date, we have never realized an economic rig utilization rate, as demand for petroleum and geothermal drilling in Nevada still continues to be very weak. Our sole drilling rig remains idle as we continue to pursue disposition of the rig and related equipment. Our minerals business has not yet realized significant revenue and is not presently profitable. Select Resources Corporation, Inc., was formed in late 2004 to manage our precious metals and industrial minerals properties in Alaska. The precious metal properties will require additional investment to discover and delineate sufficient mineral resources to justify any future commercial development. Late in 2010, we sold our calcium carbonate industrial minerals property, the Admiral Calder Mine. To date, we have realized no significant revenue from operations and cannot predict when, if ever, we may see significant returns from our precious metal investments. The value of our minerals business depends on numerous factors not under our control. The economic value of our minerals business may be adversely affected by changes in commodity prices for gold, increases in production and/or capital costs, and increased environmental or permitting requirements by federal and state governments. If our mineral properties commence production, our operating results and cash flow may be impaired by reductions in forecast grade or tonnage of the deposits, dilution of the mineral content of the ore, reduction in recovery rates, and a reduction in reserves, as well as unforeseen delays in the development of our projects. Finally, new competitors able to operate at lower costs may enter the industry. The value of our minerals business may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our minerals business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including, but not limited to, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, and unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding and periodic interruptions caused by inclement or hazardous weather conditions. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience, industry practice, and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, unaffordable; and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may impair the value of our minerals business. 5 Risks Involved in Our Business Generally Forward Looking Statements Some of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate”, and “continue,” or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • Discuss our future expectations; or • Contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; or • State other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict and/or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed in this section, other risk factors about which we may not be aware, as well as, any cautionary language in this report, provide examples of risks, uncertainties, and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Ability to Operate as a Going Concern: If we are unable to obtain additional funding, our business will be materially impaired. In December 2009 and again in July 2010, the Company engaged the services of Roth Capital Partners, LLC ("Roth"), an investment banking firm, to act as financial advisor for Tri-Valley Corporation. On April 6, 2010, the Company executed a Securities Purchase Agreement with a group of institutional investors to purchase $5.0 million of the Company’s common stock and warrants in a registered direct offering of securities. For additional information regarding the transaction, please refer to our Forms 8-K/A and 8-K, Section 1 – Registrant’s Business and Operations, Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 7, 2010, and April 6, 2010, respectively. This transaction marked a milestone in the Company’s history as its first registered direct offering of securities from an effective SEC Form S-3 shelf registration for financing. On October 22, 2010, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement with another investment banking firm, C. K. Cooper & Company (“CKCC”), under which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock for consideration of up to $3.0 million, from time to time in an at the market equity offering program, with CKCC acting as the Company’s agent. Sales of the common stock if any, under the program will depend upon market conditions and other factors to be determined by the Company and may be made in negotiated transactions or transactions that are deemed to be “at the market offerings” as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including sales made directly on the NYSE Amex, LLC, on any other existing trading market for the common stock, or to or through a market maker. The Company has no obligation to sell any common shares in the program and may at any time suspend solicitation and offers under the program or terminate the program. As of December 31, 2010; 932,495 shares of common stock had been sold through the program at an average price of $0.60 per share. The Company plans to continue utilization of the program to meet its working capital requirements through the first quarter of 2011. Our cash balance as of December 31, 2010, was $0.6 million. Current liabilities were $7.9 million on that date. The current portion of Accounts Receivable from Joint Venture Partners - Net was $3.9 million as of December 31, 2010. See Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements, Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies, for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, for additional discussion. In light of this and other factors, our independent accountants have included a going concern qualification in their report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, noting that our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on additional sources of capital and the success of our business strategy. See Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements, Note 14 – Going Concern for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 6 