ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY'S SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE AVIATION INDUSTRY. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT EXECUTE ITS BUSINESS PLAN, OR IF THE MARKET FOR ITS SERVICES FAILS TO DEVELOP DUE TO ECONOMIC OR OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING THE AVIATION INDUSTRY, THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The Company's revenues are solely derived from the aviation industry. The Company's future revenues and results of operations are dependent on its continued execution of its subscription-based revenue strategy and development of new software solutions and applications for the aviation industry. Due to economic and other factors affecting the aviation industry, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to report growth in its subscription-based business or sustain its current subscription business. If the Company is unable to sustain and/or increase its levels of revenues, and if it is not successful in reducing costs, its cash requirements may increase and results of operations will be adversely affected. Additionally, the aviation industry has been impacted by budgetary constraints, as well as airline bankruptcies and consolidations, changes in fuel costs, and the continued war on terrorism. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused fundamental and permanent changes in the airline industry, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks, or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly, would negatively affect the airline industry (through, for example, increased security, insurance, and other costs, and lost revenue due to increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales), which would, in turn, negatively affect the Company. The aviation industry is extensively regulated by government agencies, particularly the FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board. New air travel regulations have been, and management anticipates will continue to be, implemented that could have a negative impact on airline and airport revenues. Since substantially all of the Company's current revenues are derived from airport, airline, or related businesses, continued increased regulations of the aviation industry, or a continued downturn in the aviation industry's economic situation, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. RELIANCE ON THE COMPANY'S QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AS AN INDICATION OF FUTURE RESULTS IS INAPPROPRIATE DUE TO POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS. The Company's future revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a combination of factors, including: o Delays and/or decreases in the signing and invoicing of new contracts; o The length of time needed to initiate and complete customer contracts; o The introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services; o The costs associated with providing existing and new products and services; o Economic conditions and the impact on the aviation industry of acts of terrorism; and o The potential of future terrorist acts against the aviation industry and the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of performance. Page 11 or 59 THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO MEET OPERATING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE. While the Company's operations were cash flow positive for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2015 and 2014, and it has a history of profitable operations for nine years, future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict, as they depend on numerous factors, including the maintenance and growth of existing product lines and service offerings, as well as the ability to develop, provide, and sell new products and services in an industry for which liquidity and resources are already adversely affected. In recent years, the Company has generated sufficient cash to meet its capital requirements. However, in future years,the Company may need to raise additional funds in order to support discretionary expenditures and execute its business plan. These funds, in some cases, may be beyond its scope and normal operating requirements. In such case, the Company may be required to seek alternate sources of financing (which may not be available on favorable terms or at all) or abandon such activities by: (1) terminating or eliminating certain operating activities; (2) terminating personnel; (3) eliminating marketing activities; and/or (4) eliminating research and development programs. If any of the aforementioned occurs, the Company's ability to expand could become adversely affected. THE COMPANY HAS BEEN PROFITABLE FOR THE CURRENT AND PREVIOUS TEN FISCAL YEARS, BUT, PRIOR TO THAT, INCURRED OPERATING LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS. The Company has been profitable for over ten years. The Company had income before taxes of $677,000 and $863,000 for fiscal years ended October 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company's ability to maintain profitability will depend upon its ability to generate significant increased revenues through new and existing customer agreements, additional services, and/or products offered to existing and new customers, as well as to deploy PASSUR Systems in inventory and control costs associated with business operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to execute on these requirements. The Company may not be able to sustain or increase its profits on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Also, should the Company's investment in capitalized software development costs become impaired, there would be a negative impact on the Company's profitability. A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMER CONTRACTS ACCOUNTS FOR A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF THE COMPANY'S REVENUES, AND THE INABILITY TO REPLACE A KEY CUSTOMER CONTRACT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The Company relies on a small number of customer contracts for a large percentage of its revenues and expects that a significant percentage of its revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customer contracts. The Company's top five customers accounted for 53% of its revenue in fiscal year 2015. The Company's business plan is to obtain additional customers, but the Company anticipates that near-term revenues and operating results will continue to depend on large contracts from a small number of customers. Additionally, the aviation industry, particularly the airline sector, has experienced bankruptcies and consolidations recently. Bankruptcy filings or consolidations by our existing customers may adversely affect our ability to continue such services and collect payments due to the Company by such customers. As a result of this concentration of our customer base, an inability to replace one or more of these large customer contracts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. THE SOFTWARE BUSINESS FOR THE AVIATION INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND FAILURE TO ADAPT TO THE CHANGING INDUSTRY NEEDS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The industry in which we compete is marked by rapid and substantial technology change, the steady emergence of new companies and products, as well as evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. We compete with many established companies in the industry we serve, and some of these companies may have substantially greater financial, marketing, and technology resources, larger distribution capabilities, earlier access to potential customers, and greater opportunities to address customers' various information technology requirements. As the aviation industry seeks to be more cost effective, product pricing becomes increasingly important for our customers. As a result, we may experience increased competition from certain low-priced competitors. We continue to develop new products, professional services, and existing product enhancements, but may still be unsuccessful in meeting the needs of our industry in light of other alternatives available in the market. In addition, the pricing of new products, professional services, and existing product enhancements may be above what is required by the marketplace. Our inability to bring new products,professional services, and existing product enhancements to the market in a timely manner, or the failure to achieve industry acceptance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. Page 12 to 59 THE COMPANY DEPENDS UPON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN THESE EMPLOYEES. The Company's future performance depends on the continued services of its key sales, technical, and engineering personnel. The Company continues to depend on the efforts of a limited number of key personnel. The employment of any of the Company's key personnel could cease at any time, which could have an adverse effect on our business. THE PASSUR NETWORK COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT THE DELIVERY OF DATA. AT&T hosts and maintains the Company's network infrastructure through an existing frame-relay and Multiprotocol Label Switching("MPLS") network and the Company's wireless network is hosted and maintained by Sprint. If AT&T or Sprint experiences system failures, or fails to adequately maintain the frame-relay, MPLS, and wireless networks, the Company may experience interruption of delivery of data/software services and customers may terminate or elect not to continue to subscribe to these services in the future. The Company's network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks, and similar disruptive problems. Computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks, or other problems caused by third parties, could lead to interruptions, delays, or cessation in service to customers. There is currently no existing technology that provides absolute security. Such incidents could deter potential customers and adversely affect existing customer relationships. SECURITY BREACHES COULD EXPOSE THE COMPANY TO LIABILITY AND DAMAGE ITS REPUTATION AND BUSINESS. The Company processes, stores, and transmits large amounts of data and it is critical to its business strategy that its facilities and infrastructure, including those provided by customers and vendors, remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. The Company's infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information handled by the Company or its service providers may jeopardize the security or integrity of information in the Company's computer systems and networks or those of its customers and cause significant interruptions and/or errors in the Company's products and solutions. Any systems and processes that the Company has developed that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches cannot provide absolute security. In addition, the Company may not successfully implement remediation plans to address all potential exposures. It is possible that the Company may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches could expose the Company or its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, cause customers to lose confidence in the Company's data protection measures, damage the Company's reputation, adversely affect the Company's operating results or result in litigation or potential liability for the Company. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all of its losses. THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO NEW GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF FLIGHT-TRACKING DATA. The Company currently maintains strict security regulations for its data in order to comply with current government regulations. Due to the continued growing safety needs and concerns of the aviation industry, new government regulations may be implemented. Such new regulations may, in some cases, hinder the Company's ability to provide current and/or additional services. UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE COMPANY'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES BY THIRD PARTIES MAY DAMAGE AND/OR ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS BUSINESS. The Company regards its trademarks, trade secrets, and all other intellectual property as critical to its future success. Unauthorized use of its intellectual property by third parties may damage and/or impair its business. The Company relies on trademarks, trade secrets, patent protection, and contracts, including confidentiality and non-exclusive license agreements with its customers, employees, consultants, strategic partners, and others to protect its intellectual property rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the Company's intellectual property without its prior knowledge and/or authorization. Prosecuting infringers could be time consuming and costly, and, irrespective of whether or not the Company is successful, could disrupt its business. Page 13 of 59 The Company currently owns twenty-three issued patents, four of which were issued this year, and has an additional eleven patent applications which are pending with the United States Patent Office, some of which relate to newly developed internet-based software applications. The issued patents expire in various years through 2031. The Company intends to seek additional patents on its products, technological advances, and/or software applications, when appropriate. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued for any of its pending or future patent applications, or that any claims allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope, or provide adequate protection or any commercial advantage to the Company. Additionally, competitors may be able to design around patents and possibly affect commercial interests. The Company also owns a federal trademark registration in the mark PASSUR for use with both the PASSUR hardware system installation, and the software products which use the data derived from the PASSUR Network and other sources; and allowed federal trademark applications for the marks NextGen2 and NextGen3,for use with PASSUR Integrated Traffic Management modules and capabilities. The Company believes that the PASSUR NextGen2 and NextGen3 federal registrations will allow the Company to enforce its rights in the marks in the federal court system. The registrations do not assure that others will be prevented from using similar trademarks in connection with related products and/or services. DEFENDING AGAINST INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS COULD POSE SIGNIFICANT LEGAL AND PROFESSIONAL COSTS, AND IF UNSUCCESSFUL, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. The Company cannot guarantee that its future products, technologies, and software applications will not inadvertently infringe valid patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. The Company may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. Investigation of any such claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect development, marketing, selling, or delivery of its products. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and costly, and, irrespective of whether or not the Company is successful, could disrupt its business. The Company may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against the Company may result in significant monetary liability and could adversely affect its business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 