Risk Factors — Exposure to international economic and political factors may materially and adversely affect our international businesses and — Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Climate Change Policies Certain international markets in which we compete have recently adopted regulatory or policy frameworks that encourage energy-from-waste projects as important components of GHG reduction strategies, as well as waste management planning and practice. For example, the European Union has adopted regulations which require member countries to reduce utilization of and reliance upon landfill disposal. The legislation emanating from the European Union is primarily in the form of “Directives,” which are not directly applicable within the member countries. Rather, they need enabling legislation to implement them, which results in significant variance between the legislative schemes introduced by member countries. Certain Directives notably affect the regulation of energy-from-waste facilities across the European Union. These include (1) Directive 96/61/EC concerning integrated pollution prevention and control (known as the “PPC Directive”) which governs emissions to air, land and water from certain large industrial installations, (2) Directive 1999/31/EC concerning the landfill of waste (known as the “Landfill Directive”) which imposes operational and technical controls on landfills and restricts, on a reducing scale to the year 2020, the amount of biodegradable municipal waste which member countries may dispose of to landfill, and (3) Directive 2000/76/EC concerning the incineration of waste (known as the “Waste Incineration Directive” or “WID”), which imposes limits on emissions to air from the incineration and co-incineration of waste. Member countries have begun to implement measures such as imposing incremental fees on landfill disposal and providing rate subsidies for energy generated at energy-from-waste projects. In response to these directives and in furtherance of its policies to reduce GHG, the United Kingdom now imposes substantial taxes on landfilling of waste: currently £24/ton, increasing annually to £48/ton in 2010. In addition, each local waste authority in the United Kingdom is limited in the amount of biodegradable waste it may landfill each year by the Landfill Allowance Trading Scheme (known as “LATS”). LATS is structured as a cap-and-trade program which reduces the capped amount of this waste that can be landfilled each year, through 21 Table of Contents 2016 when capped amounts will be fixed at 35% of 1995 levels. LATS allowances are tradable with other waste authorities, and substantial penalties of £150/ton are levied against authorities not in compliance. Similarly, China currently has a favorable regulatory environment for the development of energy-from-waste projects. The National Plan issued by the Ministry of Construction sets guidelines for an increase in energy-from-waste capacity from 1.65% (2005 estimate) to 30% by 2030. The Chinese central government has further called for an increase in energy-from-waste output generation from 200 MW (2005 estimate) to 500 MW by 2010, and to three gigawatts by 2020. Energy-from-waste is designated by the Chinese central government as an “encouraged industry”, and accordingly, China has various promotional laws and policies in place to promote energy-from-waste projects including exemptions and reductions of corporate income tax, value added tax refunds, prioritized commercial bank loans, state subsidies for loan interest, and a guaranteed subsidized price for the sale of electricity. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 3,500 full-time employees worldwide, of which a majority are employed in the United States. Of our employees in the United States, approximately 10% are represented by organized labor. Currently, we are party to seven collective bargaining agreements: three expired in 2007 and are pending extensions; one expires in 2008, two expire in 2009, and one expires in 2010. We consider relations with our employees to be good and do not anticipate any significant labor disputes in 2008. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS A list of our executive officers and their business experience follows. Ages shown are as of February 22, 2008. Anthony J. Orlando was named President and Chief Executive Officer in October 2004. Mr. Orlando was elected as one of our directors in September 2005 and is a member of the Public Policy Committee and the Finance Committee. Previously, he had been President and Chief Executive Officer of Covanta Energy since November 2003. From March 2003 to November 2003, he served as Senior Vice President, Business and Financial Management of Covanta Energy. From January 2001 until March 2003, Mr. Orlando served as Covanta Energy’s Senior Vice President, Waste-to-Energy. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President of Covanta Energy Group, Inc. Mr. Orlando joined Covanta Energy in 1987. Age: 48. Mark A. Pytosh was appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2007. Mr. Pytosh served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2006. Previously, Mr. Pytosh served as Executive Vice President from February 2004 to August 2006 and Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to August 2006 of Waste Services, Inc., a publicly-traded integrated waste services company. Prior to his tenure with Waste Services Inc., Mr. Pytosh served as a Managing Director in Investment Banking at Lehman Brothers where he led the firm’s Global Industrial Group, from November 2000 to February 2004. Before joining Lehman Brothers in 2000, Mr. Pytosh had 15 years of investment banking experience at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Kidder, Peabody. Age: 43. John M. Klett was appointed as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2007. Mr. Klett served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Covanta Energy since May 2006 and as Covanta Energy’s Senior Vice President, Operations since March 2003. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President of Covanta Waste to Energy, Inc. for more than five years. Mr. Klett joined Covanta Energy in 1986. Mr. Klett has been in the energy-from-waste business since 1977. He has been in the power business since 1965. Age: 61. Seth Myones was appointed as Covanta Energy’s President, Americas, in November 2007, which is comprised principally of Covanta Energy’s domestic business. Mr. Myones served as Covanta Energy’s Senior Vice President, Business Management, since January 2004. From September 2001 until January 2004, Mr. Myones served as Vice 22 Table of Contents President, Waste-to-Energy Business Management for Covanta Projects, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covanta Energy. Mr. Myones joined Covanta Energy in 1989. Age: 49. Timothy J. Simpson was appointed as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in December 2007. Mr. Simpson served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since October 2004. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Covanta Energy since March 2004. From June 2001 to March 2004, Mr. Simpson served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Covanta Energy. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Covanta Energy Group, Inc. Mr. Simpson joined Covanta Energy in 1992. Age: 49. Thomas E. Bucks has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2005. Mr. Bucks served as Controller from February 2005 to April 2005. Previously, Mr. Bucks served as Senior Vice President — Controller of Centennial Communications Corp., a leading provider of regional wireless and integrated communications services in the United States and the Caribbean, from March 1995 through February 2005, where he was the principal accounting officer and was responsible for accounting operations and external financial reporting. Age: 51. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that our NOLs will continue to be available to offset tax liability. Our NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2009 and 2026. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset our future consolidated taxable income. As of December 31, 2007, we estimated that we had approximately $275 million of NOLs. In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate consolidated taxable income which can offset such carryforwards. The NOLs are also used to offset income from certain grantor trusts that were established as part of the reorganization in 1990 of certain of our subsidiaries engaged in the insurance business and are administered by state regulatory agencies. During or at the conclusion of the administration of these grantor trusts, taxable income could result, which could utilize a portion of our NOLs and, in turn, could accelerate the date on which we may be otherwise obligated to pay incremental cash taxes. In addition, if our existing insurance business were to require capital infusions from us in order to meet certain regulatory capital requirements, and we were to fail to provide such capital, some or all of our subsidiaries comprising our insurance business could enter insurance insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In such event, such subsidiaries may no longer be included in our consolidated tax return, and a portion, which could constitute a significant portion, of our remaining NOLs may no longer be available to us. In such event, there may be a significant inclusion of taxable income in our federal consolidated income tax return. Changes in public policies and legislative initiatives could materially affect our business and prospects. There has been substantial debate recently in the United States and abroad in the context of environmental and energy policies affecting climate change, the outcome of which could have a positive or negative influence on our existing business and our prospects for growing our business. The United States Congress has recently considered the enactment of new laws that would encourage electricity generation from renewable technologies and discourage such generation from fossil fuels. For example, during 2007 Congress considered proposed legislation which would have established new “renewable portfolio standards” which are designed to increase the proportion of the nation’s electricity that is generated from renewable technologies. Congress also considered extending existing tax benefits to renewable energy technologies, which will expire without such an extension. Both of these policy initiatives, and potentially others that may be considered, could provide material financial and competitive benefits to those 23 Table of Contents technologies which are included among those defined as renewable in any legislation that is enacted. Our business could be adversely affected if renewable technologies we use were not included among those technologies identified in any final law as being entitled to the benefits of such laws. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to dispose of waste, produce by-products from waste, or to produce power. We and many other companies are pursuing these technologies, and an increasing amount of capital is being invested to find new approaches to waste disposal, waste treatment, and power generation. It is possible that this deployment of capital may lead to advances in these or other technologies which will reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production to a level below our costs and/or provide new or alternative methods of waste disposal or energy generation that become more accepted than those we currently utilize. Unless we are able to participate in these advances, any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and the value of our existing facilities. Operation of our facilities involves significant risks. The operation of our facilities involves many risks, including: • the inaccuracy of our assumptions with respect to the timing and amount of anticipated revenues; • supply interruptions; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • difficulty or inability to find suitable replacement parts for equipment; • increases in the prices of commodities we need to continue operating our facilities; • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or fuel; • decreases in the fees for solid waste disposal and electricity generated; • decreases in the demand or market prices for recovered ferrous or non-ferrous metal; • disruption in the transmission of electricity generated; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; • unanticipated cost overruns; • weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism; • the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and • performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. We cannot predict the impact of these risks on our business or operations. These risks, if they were to occur, could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our operating contracts and have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Development and construction of new projects and expansions may not commence as anticipated, or at all. The development and construction of new waste and energy facilities involves many risks including: • difficulties in identifying, obtaining and permitting suitable sites for new projects; • the inaccuracy of our assumptions with respect to the cost of and schedule for completing construction; • difficulty, delays or inability to obtain financing for a project on acceptable terms; • delays in deliveries of, or increases in the prices of, equipment sourced from other countries; • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or other fuels for startup; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; • unanticipated cost overruns; and 24 Table of Contents • weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism. In addition, new facilities have no operating history and may employ recently developed technology and equipment. Our businesses maintain insurance to protect against risks relating to the construction of new projects; however, such insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, a new facility may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its debt service obligations or may operate at a loss. In certain situations, if a facility fails to achieve commercial operation, at certain levels or at all, termination rights in the agreements governing the facility’s financing may be triggered, rendering all of the facility’s debt immediately due and payable. As a result, the facility may be rendered insolvent and we may lose our interest in the facility. Construction activities may cost more and take longer than we estimate. The design and construction of new projects or expansions requires us to contract for services from engineering and construction firms, and make substantial purchases of equipment such as boilers, turbine generators and other components that require large quantities of steel to fabricate. In part because of the high world-wide demand for new energy generating facilities and waste disposal facilities, steel prices have risen sharply and may continue to do so. In addition, this increased demand affects not only the cost of obtaining the services necessary to design and construct these facilities, but also the availability of quality firms to perform the services. These conditions may adversely affect our ability to successfully compete for new projects, or construct and complete such projects on time and within budget. The rapid growth of our operations could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer. We have experienced rapid growth and intend to further grow our business. This growth has placed, and potential future growth will continue to place, a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources. Our ability to successfully offer services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continually evaluate and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to expand, train and manage our workforce worldwide. Furthermore, we expect that we will be required to manage an increasing number of relationships with various customers and other third parties. Failure to expand in any of the foregoing areas efficiently and effectively could interfere with the growth and current operation of our business as a whole. Our efforts to grow our business will require us to incur significant costs in business development, often over extended periods of time, with no guarantee of success. Our efforts to grow our waste and energy business will depend in part on how successful we are in developing new projects and expanding existing projects. The development period for each project may occur over several years, during which we incur substantial expenses relating to siting, design, permitting, community relations, financing and professional fees associated with all of the foregoing. Not all of our development efforts will be successful, and we may decide to cease developing a project for a variety of reasons. If the cessation of our development efforts were to occur at an advanced stage of development, we may have incurred a material amount of expenses for which we will realize no return. A failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business strategy and growth plans. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. Although we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions or complete acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents Our insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Although our businesses maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors, require contractors to meet certain performance levels and, in some cases, pass risks we cannot control to the service recipient or output purchaser, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Performance reductions could materially and adversely affect us and our projects may operate at lower levels than expected. Most service agreements for our energy-from-waste facilities provide for limitations on damages and cross-indemnities among the parties for damages that such parties may incur in connection with their performance under the service agreement. In most cases, such contractual provisions excuse our businesses from performance obligations to the extent affected by uncontrollable circumstances and provide for service fee adjustments if uncontrollable circumstances increase our costs. We cannot assure you that these provisions will prevent our businesses from incurring losses upon the occurrence of uncontrollable circumstances or that if our businesses were to incur such losses they would continue to be able to service their debt. We have issued or are party to performance guarantees and related contractual obligations associated with our energy and waste facilities. With respect to our domestic and international businesses, we have issued guarantees to our municipal clients and other parties that we will perform in accordance with contractual terms, including, where required, the payment of damages or other obligations. The obligations guaranteed will depend upon the contract involved. Many of our subsidiaries have contracts to operate and maintain energy-from-waste facilities. In these contracts, the subsidiary typically commits to operate and maintain the facility in compliance with legal requirements; to accept minimum amounts of solid waste; to generate a minimum amount of electricity per ton of waste; and to pay damages to contract counterparties under specified circumstances, including those where the operating subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for default. Any contractual damages or other obligations incurred by us could be material, and in circumstances where one or more subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for its default, such damages could include amounts sufficient to repay project debt. Additionally, damages payable under such guarantees on our owned energy-from-waste facilities could expose us to recourse liability on project debt. Certain of our operating subsidiaries which have issued these guarantees may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages or other obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to avoid incurring material payment obligations under such guarantees or that, if we did incur such obligations, that we would have the cash resources to pay them. Our businesses generate their revenue primarily under long-term contracts and must avoid defaults under those contracts in order to service their debt and avoid material liability to contract counterparties. We must satisfy performance and other obligations under contracts governing energy-from-waste facilities. These contracts typically require us to meet certain performance criteria relating to amounts of waste processed, energy generation rates per ton of waste processed, residue quantity and environmental standards. Our failure to satisfy these criteria may subject us to termination of operating contracts. If such a termination were to occur, we would lose the cash flow related to the projects and incur material termination damage liability, which may be guaranteed by us. In circumstances where the contract has been terminated due to our default, we may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to perform our respective obligations under such contracts in order to avoid such contract terminations, or damages related to any such contract termination, or that if we could not avoid such terminations that we would have the cash resources to pay amounts that may then become due. We have provided guarantees and financial support in connection with our projects. We are obligated to guarantee or provide financial support for our projects in one or more of the following forms: • support agreements in connection with service or operating agreement-related obligations; 26 Table of Contents • direct guarantees of certain debt relating to our facilities; • contingent obligations to pay lease payment installments in connection with certain of our facilities; • agreements to arrange financing for projects under development; • contingent credit support for damages arising from performance failures; • environmental indemnities; and • contingent capital and credit support to finance costs, in most cases in connection with a corresponding increase in service fees, relating to uncontrollable circumstances. Many of these contingent obligations cannot readily be quantified, but, if we were required to provide this support, it may be material to our cash flow and financial condition. We may face increased risk of market influences on our revenues after our contracts expire. Our contracts to operate energy-from-waste projects expire on various dates between 2008 and 2034, and our contracts to sell energy output generally expire when the project’s operating contract expires. Expiration of these contracts will subject us to greater market risk in entering into new or replacement contracts at pricing levels which will generate comparable or enhanced revenues. As our operating contracts at municipally-owned projects approach expiration, we will seek to enter into renewal or replacement contracts to continue operating such projects. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into renewal or replacement contracts on favorable terms, or at all. We will seek to bid competitively for additional contracts to operate other facilities as similar contracts of other vendors expire. The expiration of existing energy sales contracts, if not renewed, will require us to sell project energy output either into the electricity grid or pursuant to new contracts. At some of our facilities, market conditions may allow us to effect extensions of existing operating contracts along with facility expansions. Such extensions and expansions are currently being considered at a limited number of our facilities in conjunction with our clients. If we are unable to reach agreement with our municipal clients on the terms under which they would implement such extensions and expansions, or if the implementation of these extensions, including renewals and replacement contracts, and expansions are materially delayed, this may adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such contracts or that the terms available in the market at the time will be favorable to us. Our businesses depend on performance by third parties under contractual arrangements. Our waste and energy businesses depend on a limited number of third parties to, among other things, purchase the electric and steam energy produced by our facilities, and supply and deliver the waste and other goods and services necessary for the operation of our energy facilities. The viability of our facilities depends significantly upon the performance by third parties in accordance with long-term contracts, and such performance depends on factors which may be beyond our control. If those third parties do not perform their obligations, or are excused from performing their obligations because of nonperformance by our waste and energy businesses or other parties to the contracts, or due to force majeure events or changes in laws or regulations, our businesses may not be able to secure alternate arrangements on substantially the same terms, if at all, for the services provided under the contracts. In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a participant or third party in our facilities could result in nonpayment or nonperformance of that party’s obligations to us. Concentration of suppliers and customers may expose us to heightened financial exposure. Our waste and energy services businesses often rely on single suppliers and single customers at our facilities, exposing such facilities to financial risks if any supplier or customer should fail to perform its obligations. For example, our businesses often rely on a single supplier to provide waste, fuel, water and other services required to operate a facility and on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s output. In most cases our businesses have long-term agreements with such suppliers and customers in order to mitigate the risk of supply interruption. The financial performance of these facilities depends on such customers and suppliers continuing to perform their obligations under their long-term agreements. A facility’s financial results could be materially and adversely affected if any one customer or supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and we are unable to find other customers or suppliers to produce the same level of 27 Table of Contents profitability. We cannot assure you that such performance failures by third parties will not occur, or that if they do occur, such failures will not adversely affect the cash flows or profitability of our businesses. In addition, we rely on the municipal clients as a source not only of waste for fuel but also of revenue from the fees for disposal services we provide. Because our contracts with municipal clients are generally long-term, we may be adversely affected if the credit quality of one or more of our municipal clients were to decline materially. Our business is subject to pricing fluctuations caused by the waste disposal and energy markets. While we sell the majority of our waste disposal capacity and energy output pursuant to long-term contracts, a material portion of this capacity and output is subject to market price fluctuation. Consequently, our operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in waste disposal and energy prices. Our waste operations are concentrated in one region, and expose us to regional economic or market declines. The majority of our waste disposal facilities are located in the northeastern United States, primarily along the Washington, D.C. to Boston, Massachusetts corridor. Adverse economic developments in this region could affect regional waste generation rates and demand for waste disposal services provided by us. Adverse market developments caused by additional waste disposal capacity in this region could adversely affect waste disposal pricing. Either of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash generation. Some of our energy contracts involve greater risk of exposure to performance levels which could result in materially lower revenues. Some of our energy-from-waste facilities receive 100% of the energy revenues they generate. As a result, if we are unable to operate these facilities at their historical performance levels for any reason, our revenues from energy sales could materially decrease. Exposure to international economic and political factors may materially and adversely affect our international businesses. Our international operations expose us to political, legal, tax, currency, inflation, convertibility and repatriation risks, as well as potential constraints on the development and operation of potential business, any of which can limit the benefits to us of an international project. Our projected cash distributions from most of our existing international facilities come from facilities located in countries with sovereign ratings below investment grade. The financing, development and operation of projects outside the United States can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including: • changes in law or regulations; • changes in electricity pricing; • changes in foreign tax laws and regulations; • changes in United States federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations; • compliance with United States federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws; • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets; • changes in labor relations in operations outside the United States; • political, economic or military instability and civil unrest; • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities; and • credit quality of entities that purchase our power. The legal and financial environment in foreign countries in which we currently own assets or projects could also make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects. 28 Table of Contents Any or all of the risks identified above with respect to our international projects could adversely affect our revenue and cash generation. As a result, these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation could be adversely affected if opposition to our efforts to grow our business results in adverse publicity or our businesses were to fail to comply with United States or foreign laws or regulations. With respect to our efforts to renew our contracts and grow our waste and energy business both domestically and internationally, we sometimes experience opposition from advocacy groups or others intended to halt a development effort or other opportunity we may be pursuing. Such opposition is often intended to discourage third parties from doing business with us and may be based on inaccurate, incomplete or inflammatory assertions. We cannot provide any assurance that our reputation would not be adversely affected as a result of adverse publicity resulting from such opposition. Some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy to a greater extent than in the United States. It is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We cannot provide any assurance that our reputation would not be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. Exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may affect our results from operations. We have sought to participate in projects where the host country has allowed the convertibility of its currency into U.S. dollars and repatriation of earnings, capital and profits subject to compliance with local regulatory requirements. As we grow our business in other countries and enter new international markets, currency volatility may impact the amount we are required to invest in new projects, as well our reported results. In some cases, components of project costs incurred or funded in the currency of the United States are recovered with limited exposure to currency fluctuations through negotiated contractual adjustments to the price charged for electricity or service provided. This contractual structure may cause the cost in local currency to the project’s power purchaser or service recipient to rise from time to time in excess of local inflation. As a result, there is a risk in such situations that such power purchaser or service recipient will, at least in the near term, be less able or willing to pay for the project’s power or service. Exposure to fuel supply prices may affect our costs and results of operations for our international projects. Changes in the market prices and availability of fuel supplies to generate electricity may increase our cost of producing power, which could adversely impact our energy businesses’ profitability and financial performance. The market prices and availability of fuel supplies for some of our international facilities fluctuate. Any price increase, delivery disruption or reduction in the availability of such supplies could affect our ability to operate the facilities and impair their cash flow and profitability. We may be subject to further exposure if any of our future international operations are concentrated in facilities using fuel types subject to fluctuating market prices and availability. We may not be successful in our efforts to mitigate our exposure to supply and price swings. Our inability to obtain resources for operations may adversely affect our ability to effectively compete. Our energy-from-waste facilities depend on solid waste for fuel, which provides a source of revenue. For most of our facilities, the prices we charge for disposal of solid waste are fixed under long-term contracts and the supply is guaranteed by sponsoring municipalities. However, for some of our energy-from-waste facilities, the availability of solid waste to us, as well as the tipping fee that we must charge to attract solid waste to our facilities, depends upon competition from a number of sources such as other energy-from-waste facilities, landfills and transfer stations competing for waste in the market area. In addition, we may need to obtain waste on a competitive basis as our long-term contracts expire at our owned facilities. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the solid waste industry which would reduce the number of solid waste collectors or haulers that are 29 Table of Contents competing for disposal facilities or enable such collectors or haulers to use wholesale purchasing to negotiate favorable below-market disposal rates. The consolidation in the solid waste industry has resulted in companies with vertically integrated collection activities and disposal facilities. Such consolidation may result in economies of scale for those companies as well as the use of disposal capacity at facilities owned by such companies or by affiliated companies. Such activities can affect both the availability of waste to us for disposal at some of our energy-from-waste facilities and market pricing. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Costs of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Our waste and energy businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities, primarily relating to air, waste (including residual ash from combustion) and water. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in operating our facilities. Our businesses may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. Environmental regulations may also limit our ability to operate our facilities at maximum capacity or at all. If our businesses fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. This may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our facilities into compliance, or impose additional expense on our operations, or otherwise impose structural changes to markets which would adversely affect our competitive positioning in those markets. In addition, lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Stricter environmental regulation of air emissions, solid waste handling or combustion, residual ash handling and disposal, and waste water discharge could materially affect our cash flow and profitability. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Such liability is not limited to the cleanup of contamination we actually caused. Although we seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. Our businesses may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation of our facilities could be jeopardized or become subject to additional costs. Energy regulation could adversely affect our revenues and costs of operations. Our waste and energy businesses are subject to extensive energy regulations by federal, state and foreign authorities. We cannot predict whether the federal, state or foreign governments will modify or adopt new legislation or regulations relating to the solid waste or energy industries. The economics, including the costs, of operating our facilities may be adversely affected by any changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation or any future inability to comply with existing or future regulations or requirements. The Federal Power Act (“FPA”) regulates energy generating companies and their subsidiaries and places constraints on the conduct of their business. The FPA regulates wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Under PURPA, our domestic facilities are exempt from most provisions of the FPA and state rate regulation. Our foreign projects are also exempt from regulation under the FPA. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 enacted comprehensive changes to the domestic energy industry which may affect our businesses. The Energy Policy Act removed certain regulatory constraints that previously limited the ability of utilities and utility holding companies to invest in certain activities and businesses, which may have the effect over time of increasing competition in energy markets in which we participate. In addition, the Energy Policy Act includes provisions that may remove some of the benefits provided to non-utility electricity generators, like us, after our existing energy sale contracts expire. As a result, we may face increased competition after such expirations occur. 30 Table of Contents If our businesses lose existing exemptions under the FPA, the economics and operations of our energy projects could be adversely affected, including as a result of rate regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, with respect to our output of electricity, which could result in lower prices for sales of electricity. In addition, depending on the terms of the project’s power purchase agreement, a loss of our exemptions could allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity under existing contracts. Such results could cause the loss of some or all contract revenues or otherwise impair the value of a project and could trigger defaults under provisions of the applicable project contracts and financing agreements. Defaults under such financing agreements could render the underlying debt immediately due and payable. Under such circumstances, we cannot assure you that revenues received, the costs incurred, or both, in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals could adversely affect our operations. Our waste and energy businesses are continually in the process of obtaining or renewing federal, state, local and foreign approvals required to operate our facilities. While our businesses currently have all necessary operating approvals, we may not always be able to obtain all required regulatory approvals, and we may not be able to obtain any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with any required regulatory approvals, the operation of our facilities or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented, made subject to additional regulation or subject our businesses to additional costs or a decrease in revenue. The energy industry is becoming increasingly competitive, and we might not successfully respond to these changes. We may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the changes resulting in increased competition in the energy industry in both domestic and international markets. These changes may include deregulation of the electric utility industry in some markets, privatization of the electric utility industry in other markets and increasing competition in all markets. To the extent competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of our business may be subject to greater volatility. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our indebtedness. The level of our consolidated indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, including the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures (the “Debentures”); • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness under our credit facilities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our consolidated debt, and the price of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to service our indebtedness. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash and our ability to receive dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries in the future. This, in turn, is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the continued operation and maintenance of our facilities, consistent with historical performance levels; • maintenance or enhancement of revenue from renewals or replacement of existing contracts and from new contracts to expand existing facilities or operate additional facilities; • market conditions affecting waste disposal and energy pricing, as well as competition from other companies for contract renewals, expansions and additional contracts, particularly after our existing contracts expire; and • general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, and which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facilities contain operating and financial restrictions and covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. Complying with these covenant restrictions may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities, including: • incurring additional indebtedness or issuing guarantees, in excess of specified amounts; • creating liens, in excess of specified amounts; • making certain investments, in excess of specified amounts; • entering into transactions with our affiliates; • selling certain assets, in excess of specified amounts; • making cash distributions or paying dividends to us, in excess of specified amounts; • redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments to us, in excess of specified amounts; and • merging or consolidating with any person. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or in declaring and paying dividends to our stockholders. In addition, the failure to comply with these covenants in our credit facilities could result in a default thereunder and a default under the Debentures. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities, we cannot assure you that the assets securing such indebtedness would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the Debentures, and which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a 32 Table of Contents control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future discover, areas of internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Debentures could discourage an acquisition by a third party. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, certain provisions of the Debentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, the holders of the Debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase their Debentures. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion or provide for conversion based on the acquirer’s capital stock in the event of certain fundamental changes. These possibilities could discourage an acquisition of us. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. In addition, because the Debentures are convertible into our common stock, volatility or depressed prices for our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the Debentures. Consequently, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in the waste and energy market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; 33 Table of Contents • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. In addition, the conversion of some or all of the Debentures will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Debentures could depress the trading price of our common stock. Concentrated stock ownership may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. As of February 14, 2008, SZ Investments, L.L.C., together with its affiliate, EGI-Fund (05-07) Investors, L.L.C., referred to as “Fund 05-07” and, collectively with SZ Investments, L.L.C. “SZ Investments,” and Third Avenue Trust, on behalf of Third Avenue Value Fund, referred to as “Third Avenue,” separately own approximately 15.1% and 5.7%, respectively, or when aggregated, approximately 20.8% of our outstanding common stock. Although there are no agreements among SZ Investments and Third Avenue regarding their voting or disposition of shares of our common stock, the level of their combined ownership of shares of our common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Further, as a result, these stockholders may continue to have the ability to influence the election or removal of our directors and influence the outcome of matters presented for approval by our stockholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these stockholders could be in conflict with the holders of the Debentures. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 