Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in public policies and legislative initiatives could materially affect our business and prospects. There has been substantial debate recently in the United States and abroad in the context of environmental and energy policies affecting climate change, the outcome of which could have a positive or negative influence on our existing business and our prospects for growing our business. The United States Congress has recently considered the enactment of laws that would encourage electricity generation from renewable technologies and discourage such generation from fossil fuels. Congress has considered proposed legislation which would have established new “renewable portfolio standards” which are designed to increase the proportion of the nation’s electricity that is generated from renewable technologies. Congress has also considered enacting legislation which sets declining limits on greenhouse gas emissions, and requires generators to purchase rights to emit in excess of such limits, and allows such rights to be traded. This structure is sometimes referred to as “cap-and-trade”. In addition, Congress has periodically considered extending existing tax benefits to renewable energy technologies, which would expire without such an extension. Each of these policy initiatives, and potentially others that may be considered, could provide material financial and competitive benefits to those technologies which are included among those defined as clean and/or renewable in any legislation that is enacted, or are otherwise favorably treated as greenhouse gas reducing technologies in “cap-and-trade” legislation. For those sources of GHG emissions that are unable to meet the required limitations, such legislation could impose substantial financial burdens. Our business and future prospects could be adversely affected if renewable technologies we use were not included among those technologies identified in any final law as being clean or renewable or greenhouse gas reducing, and therefore not entitled to the benefits of such laws. Weakness in the economy may have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and our ability to grow our business. The recent economic slowdown has reduced demand for goods and services generally, which tends to reduce overall volumes of waste requiring disposal, and the pricing at which we can attract waste to fill available capacity. At the same time, the recent decline in global oil and natural gas prices has pushed energy pricing lower generally, and may reduce the prices for the portion of the energy we sell under short-term arrangements. Lastly, the downturn in economic activity tends to reduce global demand for and pricing of certain commodities, such as the scrap metals we recycle from our energy-from-waste facilities. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flow, and may not be successfully mitigated or reduced by the efforts of governments to stimulate economic activity. The same economic slowdown may reduce the demand for the waste disposal services and the energy that our facilities offer. Many of our customers are municipalities and public authorities, which are generally experiencing fiscal pressure as local and central governments seek to reduce expenses in order to address declining tax revenues, which may result from the recent economic slowdown and increases in unemployment. These factors, particularly in the absence of energy policies which encourage renewable technologies such as energy-from-waste, may make it more difficult for us to sell waste disposal services or energy at prices sufficient to allow us to grow our business through developing and building new projects. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by market conditions existing at the time our contracts expire. The contracts pursuant to which we operate energy-from-waste projects and sell energy output expire on various dates between 2011 and 2034. Expiration of these contracts will subject us to greater market risk in entering into new or replacement contracts at pricing levels that may not generate comparable revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into renewal or replacement contracts on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, as existing contracts entered into under Qualifying Facility (“QF”) historic avoided cost rates expire, a significant and increasing portion of our electricity output will be sold at rates determined through our participation in competitive energy markets. The expiration of existing energy sales contracts, if not renewed under similar terms, will require us to sell project energy output either in short-term transactions or on a spot basis or pursuant to new contracts, which may subject us to greater market risk in maintaining and enhancing revenue. We also expect that medium- and long-term contracts for sales of energy may be less available than in the past. As a result, following the expiration of our existing long-term contracts, we may have more exposure on a relative basis to market risk, and therefore revenue fluctuations, in energy markets than in waste markets. Our revenue and cash flows may decline if we are not successful in extending or renewing our contracts to operate facilities which we do not own. We operate facilities for municipal clients, under long-term contracts and we have historically been successful extending such contracts. If in the future when existing contracts expire, we are unable to reach agreement with our municipal clients on the terms under which they would extend our operating contracts, this may adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such contracts or that the terms available in the market at the time will be favorable to us. 23 Table of Contents Our revenue and cash flows may be subject to greater volatility if we extend or renew our contracts under tip fee structures more often than service fee structures. For facilities we own as well as those we operate for municipal clients, if we are successful in reaching agreement with our municipal clients on the terms under which they would extend our contracts, we may do so under tip fee structures more often than under service fee structures. If that were to occur, we may be exposed to greater performance and price risk on the energy we sell, which may increase the volatility of our revenue and cash flow. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such contracts or that the structures of such contracts will not expose us to greater risks. Exposure to commodity prices may affect our results of operations. Some of the electricity and steam we sell and all of the recycled metals we sell, are subject to market price volatility. Changes in the market prices for electricity and steam in particular can be affected by changes in natural gas prices, while recycled metals prices are affected by general economic conditions and global demand for construction, goods and services. Similarly, the portion of waste disposal capacity which is not under contract may be subject to volatility, principally as a result of general economic activity and related waste generation, as well as the availability of alternative disposal sites. Volatility with respect to all of these revenues could adversely impact our businesses’ profitability and financial performance. We may experience volatility in the market prices and availability of commodities we purchase, such as reagents we use in our operations, or fuel supplies for some of our international facilities and for our domestic biomass facilities. Any price increase, delivery disruption or reduction in the availability of such supplies could affect our ability to operate the facilities and impair their cash flow and profitability. We may not be successful in our efforts to mitigate our exposure to supply and price swings. Recent dislocations in credit and capital markets may make it more difficult for us to borrow money or raise capital needed to finance the construction of new projects, the expansion of our existing projects, and the acquisition of certain businesses and the refinancing of our existing debt. Our business is capital intensive, and we typically borrow money from project lenders to pay for a portion of the cost to construct facilities. Recent dislocations in the credit markets, including for project debt, have resulted in less credit being made available by banks and other lending institutions, and/or borrowing terms that are less favorable than has historically been the case. As a result, we may not be able to obtain financing for new facilities or expansions of our existing facilities, on terms, and/or for a cost, that we find acceptable, which may make it more difficult to grow our business through new and/or expanded facilities. We also intend to grow our business through opportunistic acquisitions of projects or businesses. Some acquisitions may be large enough to require capital in excess of our cash on hand and availability under our revolving credit facility. Recent dislocations in the capital markets may adversely impact our access to debt or equity capital, and our ability to execute our strategy to grow our business through such acquisitions. Prolonged instability or worsening of the credit or capital markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain refinancing of debt on favorable terms, or at all. Such circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or the share price of our common stock. Our reputation could be adversely affected if opposition to our efforts to grow our business results in adverse publicity. With respect to our efforts to grow and maintain our business globally, we sometimes experience opposition from advocacy groups or others intended to halt our development or on-going business. Such opposition is often intended to discourage third parties from doing business with us and may be based on misleading, inaccurate, incomplete or inflammatory assertions. Our reputation may be adversely affected as a result of adverse publicity resulting from such opposition. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow and maintain our business. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to dispose of waste, produce by-products from waste, or to produce power. We and many other companies are pursuing these technologies, and an increasing amount of capital is being invested to find new approaches to waste disposal, waste treatment, and renewable power generation. It is possible that this deployment of capital may lead to advances in these or other technologies which will reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production to a level below our costs and/or provide new or alternative methods of waste disposal or energy generation that become more accepted than those we currently utilize. Unless we are able to participate in these advances, any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and the value of our existing facilities. Operation of our facilities involves significant risks. The operation of our facilities involves many risks, including: • supply interruptions; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • difficulty or inability to find suitable replacement parts for equipment; • increases in the prices of commodities we need to continue operating our facilities; • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or fuel; 24 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the heating value of the waste we use for fuel at our energy-from-waste facilities; • decreases in the fees for solid waste disposal and electricity generated; • decreases in the demand or market prices for recovered ferrous or non-ferrous metal; • disruption in the transmission of electricity generated; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; • unanticipated cost overruns; • weather interferences and catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts, pandemics and acts of terrorism; and • the exercise of the power of eminent domain. We cannot predict the impact of these risks on our business or operations. One or more of these risks, if they were to occur, could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our operating contracts and have an adverse affect on our cash flows and results of operations. Development and construction of new projects and expansions may not commence as anticipated, or at all. The development and construction of new energy-from-waste facilities involves many risks including: • difficulties in identifying, obtaining and permitting suitable sites for new projects; • the inaccuracy of our assumptions with respect to the cost of and schedule for completing construction; • difficulty, delays or inability to obtain financing for a project on acceptable terms; • delays in deliveries of, or increases in the prices of, equipment sourced from other countries; • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste or other fuels for startup; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; • unanticipated cost overruns; and • weather interferences and catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts, pandemics and acts of terrorism. In addition, new facilities have no operating history and may employ recently developed technology and equipment. Our businesses maintain insurance to protect against risks relating to the construction of new projects; however, such insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, a new facility may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its debt service obligations or may operate at a loss. In certain situations, if a facility fails to achieve commercial operation, at certain levels or at all, termination rights in the agreements governing the facilities financing may be triggered, rendering all of the facility’s debt immediately due and payable. As a result, the facility may be rendered insolvent and we may lose our interest in the facility. Construction activities may cost more and take longer than we estimate. The design and construction of new projects or expansions requires us to contract for services from engineering and construction firms, and make substantial purchases of equipment such as boilers, turbine generators and other components that require large quantities of steel to fabricate. If world-wide demand for new infrastructure spending, including energy generating facilities and waste disposal facilities, increases, then prices for building materials such as steel may also rise sharply. In addition, this increased demand would affect not only the cost of obtaining the services necessary to design and construct these facilities, but also the availability of quality firms to perform the services. These conditions may adversely affect our ability to successfully compete for new projects, or construct and complete such projects on time and within budget. Exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may affect our results from operations or construction costs of facilities we develop in international markets. We have sought to participate in projects where the host country has allowed the convertibility of its currency into U.S. dollars and repatriation of earnings, capital and profits subject to compliance with local regulatory requirements. As we grow our business in other countries and enter new international markets, we expect to invest substantial amounts in foreign currencies to pay for the construction costs of facilities we develop, or for the cost to acquire existing businesses or assets. Currency volatility in those markets, as well as the effectiveness of any currency hedging strategies we may implement, may impact the amount we are required to invest in new projects, as well as our reported results. In some cases, components of project costs incurred or funded in U.S. dollars are recovered with limited exposure to currency fluctuations through negotiated contractual adjustments to the price charged for electricity or service provided. This contractual structure may cause the cost in local currency to the project’s power purchaser or service recipient to rise from time to time in excess of local inflation. As a result, there is a risk in such situations that such power purchaser or service recipient will, at least in the near term, be less able or willing to pay for the project’s power or service. 25 Table of Contents The recently enacted United States federal legislation on healthcare reform and proposed amendments thereto could impact the healthcare benefits we provide to our employees and cause our compensation costs to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting our cash flows. The United States federal healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions which could materially impact our future healthcare costs. While the legislation’s ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our compensation costs which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. Changes in labor laws could adversely affect our relationship with our employees and cause disruptions to our business. Legislation has been proposed in Congress which would materially change the labor laws in the United States. The proposed changes would, among other things, allow labor unions to organize employees without secret ballot employee protections; require arbitrator-imposed contracts in the event good faith bargaining was not successful within short time periods; and impose significant fines on employers under certain circumstances. Our business depends upon the professionalism, innovation, and hard work of our employees and our ability to maintain a safe workplace where employees are treated fairly, with respect, and where we have the flexibility to make operating decisions. We believe our success may be affected by the degree to which we are able to maintain a direct relationship with our employees without the imposition of third party representatives, such as labor unions. We cannot predict if such legislation will be enacted in its present form or whether and to what extent it may affect our relationship with our employees, the cost of operating our facilities and our operating discretion. The rapid growth of our operations could strain our resources and cause our business to suffer. We have experienced rapid growth and intend to further grow our business. This growth has placed, and potential future growth will continue to place, a strain on our management systems, infrastructure and resources. Our ability to successfully offer services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continually evaluate and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to expand, train and manage our workforce worldwide. Furthermore, we expect that we will be required to manage an increasing number of relationships with various customers and other third parties. Failure to expand in any of the foregoing areas efficiently and effectively could interfere with the growth and current operation of our business as a whole. Our efforts to grow our business will require us to incur significant costs in business development, often over extended periods of time, with no guarantee of success. Our efforts to grow our waste and energy services business will depend in part on how successful we are in developing new projects and expanding existing projects. The development period for each project may occur over several years, during which we incur substantial expenses relating to siting, design, permitting, community relations, financing and professional fees associated with all of the foregoing. Not all of our development efforts will be successful, and we may decide to cease developing a project for a variety of reasons. If the cessation of our development efforts were to occur at an advanced stage of development, we may have incurred a material amount of expenses for which we will realize no return and potential liability. Our insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Although our businesses maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors, require contractors to meet certain performance levels and, in some cases, pass risks we cannot control to the service recipient or output purchaser, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Performance reductions could materially and adversely affect us and our projects may operate at lower levels than expected. Most service agreements for our energy-from-waste facilities provide for limitations on damages and cross-indemnities among the parties for damages that such parties may incur in connection with their performance under the service agreement. In most cases, such contractual provisions excuse our businesses from performance obligations to the extent affected by uncontrollable circumstances and provide for service fee adjustments if uncontrollable circumstances increase our costs. We cannot assure you that these provisions will prevent our businesses from incurring losses upon the occurrence of uncontrollable circumstances or that if our businesses were to incur such losses they would continue to be able to service their debt. We have issued or are party to performance guarantees and related contractual obligations associated with our energy-from-waste facilities. With respect to our businesses, we have issued guarantees to our municipal clients and other parties that we will perform in accordance with contractual terms, including, where required, the payment of damages or other obligations. The obligations guaranteed will depend upon the contract involved. Many of our subsidiaries have contracts to operate and maintain energy-from-waste facilities. In these contracts, the subsidiary typically commits to operate and maintain the facility in compliance with legal requirements; to accept minimum amounts of solid waste; to generate a minimum amount of electricity per ton of waste; and to pay damages to contract counterparties under specified circumstances, including those where the operating subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for default. Any contractual damages or other obligations incurred by us could be material, and in circumstances where one or more subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for its default, such damages could include amounts sufficient to repay 26 Table of Contents project debt. Additionally, damages payable under such guarantees on our owned energy-from-waste facilities could expose us to recourse liability on project debt. Certain of our operating subsidiaries which have issued these guarantees may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages or other obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to avoid incurring material payment obligations under such guarantees or that, if we did incur such obligations, that we would have the cash resources to pay them. Our businesses generate their revenue primarily under long-term contracts and must avoid defaults under those contracts in order to service their debt and avoid material liability to contract counterparties. We must satisfy performance and other obligations under contracts governing energy-from-waste facilities. These contracts typically require us to meet certain performance criteria relating to amounts of waste processed, energy generation rates per ton of waste processed, residue quantity and environmental standards. Our failure to satisfy these criteria may subject us to termination of operating contracts. If such a termination were to occur, we would lose the cash flow related to the projects and incur material termination damage liability, which may be guaranteed by us. In circumstances where the contract has been terminated due to our default, we may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to perform our respective obligations under such contracts in order to avoid such contract terminations, or damages related to any such contract termination, or that if we could not avoid such terminations that we would have the cash resources to pay amounts that may then become due. We have provided guarantees and financial support in connection with our projects. We are obligated to guarantee or provide financial support for our projects in one or more of the following forms: • support agreements in connection with service or operating agreement-related obligations; • direct guarantees of certain debt relating to our facilities; • contingent obligations to pay lease payment installments in connection with certain of our facilities; • agreements to arrange financing for projects under development; • contingent credit support for damages arising from performance failures; • environmental indemnities; and • contingent capital and credit support to finance costs, in most cases in connection with a corresponding increase in service fees, relating to uncontrollable circumstances. Many of these contingent obligations cannot readily be quantified, but, if we were required to provide this support, it could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Our businesses depend on performance by third parties under contractual arrangements. Our waste and energy services businesses depend on a limited number of third parties to, among other things, purchase the electric and steam energy produced by our facilities, and supply and deliver the waste and other goods and services necessary for the operation of our energy facilities. The viability of our facilities depends significantly upon the performance by third parties in accordance with long-term contracts, and such performance depends on factors which may be beyond our control. If those third parties do not perform their obligations, or are excused from performing their obligations because of nonperformance by our waste and energy services businesses or other parties to the contracts, or due to force majeure events or changes in laws or regulations, our businesses may not be able to secure alternate arrangements on substantially the same terms, if at all, for the services provided under the contracts. In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a participant or third party in our facilities could result in nonpayment or nonperformance of that party’s obligations to us. Many of these third parties are municipalities and public authorities. The recent economic slowdown and disruptions in credit markets have strained resources of these entities generally, and could make it difficult for these entities to honor their obligations to us. We are subject to counterparty and market risk with respect to transactions with financial and other institutions. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. The option counterparties to our cash convertible note hedge transactions are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to risks that these option counterparties default under these transactions. Our exposure to counterparty credit risk is not secured by any collateral. If one or more of the counterparties to one or more of our cash convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock price and in volatility of our stock. We may also suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of a default by one of the option counterparties. In addition, a default by an option counterparty may result in our inability to repay the 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes as a result of the negative covenants in our credit agreement or otherwise. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of our counterparties. We also have a revolving credit facility, a funded letter of credit facility, and term loan with a diversified group of financial institutions. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of these financial and other institutions and their ability to fund their obligation when required under our agreements. 27 Table of Contents We also expect that medium- and long-term contracts for sales of energy will be less available than in the past. As a result, following the expiration of our initial long-term contracts, we expect to have on a relative basis more exposure to market risk, and therefore revenue fluctuations, in energy markets than in waste markets. Consequently, we may enter into futures, forward contracts, swaps or options with financial institutions to hedge our exposure to market risk in energy markets. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of these financial and other institutions. Concentration of suppliers and customers may expose us to heightened financial exposure. Our waste and energy services businesses often rely on single suppliers and single customers at our facilities, exposing such facilities to financial risks if any supplier or customer should fail to perform its obligations. For example, our businesses often rely on a single supplier to provide waste, fuel, water and other services required to operate a facility and on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s output. In most cases our businesses have long-term agreements with such suppliers and customers in order to mitigate the risk of supply interruption. The financial performance of these facilities depends on such customers and suppliers continuing to perform their obligations under their long-term agreements. A facility’s financial results could be materially and adversely affected if any one customer or supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and we are unable to find other customers or suppliers to produce the same level of profitability. We cannot assure you that such performance failures by third parties will not occur, or that if they do occur, such failures will not adversely affect the cash flows or profitability of our businesses. In addition, we rely on the municipal clients as a source not only of waste for fuel, but also of revenue from the fees for disposal services we provide. Because our contracts with municipal clients are generally long-term, we may be adversely affected if the credit quality of one or more of our municipal clients were to decline materially. Our waste operations are concentrated in one region, and expose us to regional economic or market declines. The majority of our waste disposal facilities are located in the northeastern United States, primarily along the Washington, D.C. to Boston, Massachusetts corridor. Adverse economic developments in this region could affect regional waste generation rates and demand for waste disposal services provided by us. Adverse market developments caused by additional waste disposal capacity in this region could adversely affect waste disposal pricing. Either of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash generation. Some of our energy contracts involve greater risk of exposure to performance levels which could result in materially lower revenues. Some of our energy-from-waste facilities receive 100% of the energy revenues they generate. As a result, if we are unable to operate these facilities at their historical performance levels for any reason, our revenues from energy sales could materially decrease. Exposure to international economic and political factors may materially and adversely affect our international businesses. Our international operations expose us to political, legal, tax, currency, inflation, convertibility and repatriation risks, as well as potential constraints on the development and operation of potential business, any of which can limit the benefits to us of an international project. Our projected cash distributions from most of our existing international facilities come from facilities located in countries with sovereign ratings below investment grade. The financing, development and operation of projects outside the United States can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including: • changes in law or regulations; • changes in electricity pricing; • changes in foreign tax laws and regulations; • changes in United States federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations; • compliance with United States federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws; • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets; • changes in labor relations in operations outside the United States; • political, economic or military instability and civil unrest; • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities; and • credit quality of entities that purchase our power. The legal and financial environment in foreign countries in which we currently own assets or projects could also make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects. Any or all of the risks identified above with respect to our international projects could adversely affect our revenue and cash generation. As a result, these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Our reputation could be adversely affected if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with United States or foreign laws or regulations. Some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically penetrated the economy to a greater extent than in the United States. It is our policy to comply, and to require our local partners and those with whom we do business to comply, with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our inability to obtain resources for operations may adversely affect our ability to effectively compete. Our energy-from-waste facilities depend on solid waste for fuel, which provides a source of revenue. For most of our facilities, the prices we charge for disposal of solid waste are fixed under long-term contracts and the supply is guaranteed by sponsoring municipalities. However, for some of our energy-from-waste facilities, the availability of solid waste to us, as well as the tipping fee that we must charge to attract solid waste to our facilities, depends upon competition from a number of sources such as other energy- from-waste facilities, landfills and transfer stations competing for waste in the market area. In addition, we may need to obtain waste on a competitive basis as our long-term contracts expire at our owned facilities. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the solid waste industry which would reduce the number of solid waste collectors or haulers that are competing for disposal facilities or enable such collectors or haulers to use wholesale purchasing to negotiate favorable below-market disposal rates. The consolidation in the solid waste industry has resulted in companies with vertically integrated collection activities and disposal facilities. Such consolidation may result in economies of scale for those companies as well as the use of disposal capacity at facilities owned by such companies or by affiliated companies. Such activities can affect both the availability of waste to us for disposal at some of our energy-from-waste facilities and market pricing. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Costs of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Our waste and energy services businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, primarily relating to air, waste (including residual ash from combustion) and water. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in operating our facilities. Our businesses may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. Environmental regulations may also limit our ability to operate our facilities at maximum capacity or at all. If our businesses fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. This may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our facilities into compliance, impose additional expense on our operations, or otherwise impose structural changes to markets which would adversely affect our competitive positioning in those markets. In addition, lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Stricter environmental regulation of air emissions, solid waste handling or combustion, residual ash handling and disposal, and waste water discharge could materially affect our cash flow and profitability. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Such liability is not limited to the cleanup of contamination we actually caused. Although we seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. Our businesses may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation of our facilities could be jeopardized or become subject to additional costs. Energy regulation could adversely affect our revenues and costs of operations. Our waste and energy services businesses are subject to extensive energy regulations by federal, state and foreign authorities. We cannot predict whether the federal, state or foreign governments will modify or adopt new legislation or regulations relating to the solid waste or energy industries. The economics, including the costs, of operating our facilities may be adversely affected by any changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation or any future inability to comply with existing or future regulations or requirements. The Federal Power Act (“FPA”) regulates energy generating companies and their subsidiaries and places constraints on the conduct of their business. The FPA regulates wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, most of our facilities located in the United States are exempt from most provisions of the FPA and also from state rate regulation. Our facilities located in the United States that are making power sales not exempt from FPA rate regulation have been authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 29 Table of Contents (“FERC”) to make wholesale sales of electricity at market-based rates or otherwise make sales at rates on file with FERC. Our foreign projects are also exempt from regulation under the FPA. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 enacted comprehensive changes to the energy industry in the United States which may affect our businesses. The Energy Policy Act removed certain regulatory constraints that previously limited the ability of utilities and utility holding companies to invest in certain activities and businesses, which may have the effect over time of increasing competition in energy markets in which we participate. In addition, the Energy Policy Act includes provisions that may remove some of the benefits provided to non-utility electricity generators, like us, after our existing energy sale contracts expire, including eliminating the obligation imposed on utilities to purchase power from QFs at an avoided cost rate if certain conditions are met. As a result, we may face increased competition after such expirations occur. If we are unable to extend or renew existing contracts (including contracts with favorable avoided cost or other rates) under similar terms, we would sell project energy output either in short-term transactions or on a spot basis or pursuant to new contracts, which may subject us to greater market risk in maintaining and enhancing revenue. If our businesses lose existing exemptions under the FPA, the economics and operations of our energy projects could be adversely affected, including as a result of rate regulation by FERC with respect to our output of electricity, which could result in lower prices for sales of electricity and increased compliance costs. In addition, depending on the terms of the project’s power purchase agreement, a loss of our exemptions could allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity under existing contracts. Such results could cause the loss of some or all contract revenues or otherwise impair the value of a project and could trigger defaults under provisions of the applicable project contracts and financing agreements. Defaults under such financing agreements could render the underlying debt immediately due and payable. Under such circumstances, we cannot assure you that revenues received, the costs incurred, or both, in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals could adversely affect our operations. Our waste and energy services businesses are continually in the process of obtaining or renewing federal, state, local and foreign approvals required to operate our facilities. While we believe our businesses currently have all necessary operating approvals, we may not always be able to obtain all required regulatory approvals, and we may not be able to obtain any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with any required regulatory approvals, the operation of our facilities or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented, made subject to additional regulation or subject our businesses to additional costs or a decrease in revenue. The energy industry is becoming increasingly competitive, and we might not successfully respond to these changes. We may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the changes resulting in increased competition in the energy industry in global markets. These changes may include deregulation of the electric utility industry in some markets, privatization of the electric utility industry in other markets and increasing competition in all markets. To the extent competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of our business may be subject to greater volatility. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our indebtedness. The level of our consolidated indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding indebtedness; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness under our credit facilities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our consolidated debt, and the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to service our indebtedness. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to receive dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries in the future. This, in turn, is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the continued operation and maintenance of our facilities, consistent with historical performance levels; • maintenance or enhancement of revenue from renewals or replacement of existing contracts and from new contracts to expand existing facilities or operate additional facilities; • market conditions affecting waste disposal and energy pricing, as well as competition from other companies for contract renewals, expansions and additional contracts, particularly after our existing contracts expire; • the continued availability of the benefits of our NOLs; and • general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. 30 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. Our credit facilities and the indenture for the 7.25% Senior Notes contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facilities contain operating and financial restrictions and covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. Additionally, the indenture for the 7.25% Senior Notes contains operating and financial restrictions and covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. Complying with these covenant restrictions may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities, including: • incurring additional indebtedness or issuing guarantees, in excess of specified amounts; • creating liens, in excess of specified amounts; • making certain investments, in excess of specified amounts; • entering into transactions with our affiliates; • selling certain assets, in excess of specified amounts; • making cash distributions or paying dividends to us, in excess of specified amounts; • redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments to us, in excess of specified amounts; and • merging or consolidating with any person. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, the failure to comply with these covenants in our credit facilities could result in a default thereunder and a default under the 7.25% Senior Notes. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities, we cannot assure you that the assets securing such indebtedness would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, which could have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition. We cannot be certain that our NOLs will continue to be available to offset tax liability. Our net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), which offset our consolidated taxable income, will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2023 and 2030. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. On November 10, 2010, we received a letter from the IRS indicating that our tax returns for the tax years 2004 to 2008 were selected for examination. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, it is possible that some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset our consolidated taxable income. As of December 31, 2010, we estimated that we had approximately $397 million of NOLs. In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate consolidated taxable income which can offset such carryforwards. The NOLs are also used to offset income from certain grantor trusts that were established as part of the reorganization in 1990 of certain of our subsidiaries engaged in the insurance business and are administered by state regulatory agencies. As the administration of these grantor trusts is concluded, taxable income could result, which could utilize a portion of our NOLs and, in turn, could accelerate the date on which we may be otherwise obligated to pay incremental cash taxes. In addition, if our existing insurance business were to require capital infusions from us in order to meet certain regulatory capital requirements, and we were to fail to provide such capital, some or all of our subsidiaries comprising our insurance business could enter insurance insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In such event, such subsidiaries may no longer be included in our consolidated tax return, and a portion, which could constitute a significant portion, of our remaining NOLs may no longer be available to us. In such event, there may be a significant inclusion of taxable income in our federal consolidated income tax return. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be 31 Table of Contents circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. While the design of any system of controls is to provide reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of disclosure controls, such design is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and such assumptions, while reasonable, may not take into account all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future discover, areas of internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We depend on our senior management and key personnel and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified professionals. Our future operating results depend to a large extent upon the continued contributions of key senior managers and personnel. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. However, there is significant competition for employees with the requisite level of experience and qualifications. If we cannot attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, we may be unable to compete effectively and our growth may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, our senior credit facility, the 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes and the 7.25% Senior Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes, the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, our senior credit facility and the 7.25% Senior Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes, the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, our senior credit facility and the 7.25% Senior Notes will have the right to require Covanta Holding or Covanta Energy, as the case may be, to repurchase their 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes, 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, 7.25% Senior Notes or repay the facility, as applicable. We may also be required to increase the conversion rate of the 3.25% Cash Convertible Senior Notes or the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures or, with respect to the 1.00% Senior Convertible Debentures, provide for conversion based on the acquirer’s capital stock in the event of certain fundamental changes. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, each as amended, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. All these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 