ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS AND EXPECTS ITS LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS TO CONTINUE FOR THE NEXT SEVERAL REPORTING PERIODS. The Company has incurred significant losses during the last seven fiscal years. The Company incurred net losses of approximately $924,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, $1,390,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004 and $2,486,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2003. As of October 31, 2005, the Company's accumulated deficit was approximately $10,012,000. The Company anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses and negative cash flows for the next several reporting periods. The Company's ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend upon its ability to generate significant increased revenues through new and existing customer agreements, additional services and/or products offered to existing customers and to control the costs associated with the business operations. There is no guarantee that the Company will be able to execute on these requirements. If the Company becomes profitable for a specific reporting period, it still may not be able to sustain or increase its profits on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Page 9 of 66 THE COMPANY'S SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE AVIATION INDUSTRY. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT EXECUTE ITS BUSINESS PLAN OR IF THE MARKET FOR ITS SERVICES FAILS TO DEVELOP DUE TO THE DEPRESSED AVIATION INDUSTRY, ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The Company's revenues are solely derived from the aviation industry. The Company's future revenues and results of operations are dependent on its continued execution of its subscription-based revenue strategy and development of new software solutions and applications for the aviation industry. Due to the depressed aviation industry, it is not assured that the Company will be able to continue to report growth in its subscription-based business or sustain its current subscription business. If the Company is unable to sustain and/or increase its levels of revenues, and it is not successful in reducing costs, its cash requirements may increase and the results of operations will continue to be adversely affected. Additionally, the aviation industry has been impacted by budgetary constraints and airline bankruptcies due to the downturn in the current economy, the terrorist events of September 11, 2001 and the war on terrorism. The aviation industry is extensively regulated by government agencies, particularly the FAA and The National Transportation Safety Board. New air travel regulations have been, and management anticipates will continue to be, implemented that could have a negative impact on airline and airport revenues. Since substantially all of the Company's current revenues are derived from either airports or airlines, continued increased regulations of the aviation industry or continued downturn in the economic situation of the aviation industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company. RELIANCE ON THE COMPANY'S QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AS AN INDICATION OF FUTURE RESULTS IS INAPPROPRIATE DUE TO POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS. The Company's future revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a combination of factors, including: o Delays and/or decreases in the signing and invoicing of new contracts; o The length of time needed to initiate and complete customer contracts; o Revenues recognized from one-time sales events (selling or upgrading systems) versus subscription based sales; o The introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services; o The costs associated with providing existing and new products and services; o Economic conditions in the United States and the impact on the aviation industry from the terrorist events of September 11, 2001 and continued war or terrorism; and o The potential of future terrorist acts against the aviation industry. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations should not be relied on as an indication of performance. It is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below those expected based upon previous performance. THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO MEET OPERATING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE. The Company has incurred significant negative cash flows from operations over the past several fiscal years. It has obtained a commitment from its significant shareholder and Chairman to provide the resources necessary to meet working capital and liquidity requirements through January 12, 2007. However, future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict, as they depend on numerous factors, including the maintenance and growth of existing product lines and service offerings, as well as the ability to develop, provide and sell new products in an industry for which liquidity and resources are already adversely affected. Page 10 of 66 The Company has significant cash requirements, which are expected to continue in the future. The Company may need to raise additional funds in order to support discretionary capital expenditures and execute its business plan. These funds in some cases may be beyond the scope and normal operating requirements, for which the Company has a commitment from its significant shareholder and Chairman and therefore, may not be approved and/or funded. In such case, the Company may be required to seek alternate sources of financing (which may not be available on favorable terms or at all) or abandon such activities by either: terminating or eliminating certain operating activities; terminating personnel; eliminating marketing activities; and/or eliminating research and development programs. If any of the aforementioned occurs, the Company's ability to expand could become adversely affected. A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMER CONTRACTS ACCOUNTS FOR A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF THE COMPANY'S REVENUES, AND THE INABILITY TO REPLACE A KEY CUSTOMER CONTRACT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The Company relies on a small number of customer contracts for a large percentage of its revenues and expects that a significant percentage of its revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customer contracts. The Company's business plan is to obtain additional customers, but anticipates that near term revenues and operating results will continue to depend on large contracts from a small number of customers. Additionally, the aviation industry, particularly the airline sector, has experienced several Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings recently. Any Chapter 11 filings by our existing customers may adversely affect our ability to continue such services and collect payments due to the Company by such customers. As a result of this concentration of our customer base, an inability to replace one or more of these large customer contracts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. THE SOFTWARE BUSINESS FOR THE AVIATION INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND FAILURE TO ADAPT TO THE CHANGING INDUSTRY NEEDS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The industry in which we compete is marked by rapid and substantial technology change, the steady emergence of new companies and products, as well as evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. We compete with many established companies in the industry we serve, and some of these companies may have substantially greater financial, marketing and technology resources, larger distribution capabilities, earlier access to potential customers and greater opportunities to address customers' various information technology requirements. As the aviation industry seeks to be more cost effective due to the continued economic downturn, product pricing becomes increasingly important for our customers. As a result we may experience increased competition from certain, low-priced competitors. To remain competitive, we continue to develop new products and continue to enhance existing products. We may be unsuccessful in our ability to sell new products and/or product releases that meet the needs of our industry in light of low-cost, less functional alternatives available in the market. In addition, the pricing of new products or releases of existing products may be above that required by the market place. Our inability to bring such new products or enhancements to existing products to the market in a timely manner or the failure for these products to achieve industry acceptance could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. THE COMPANY DEPENDS UPON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN THESE EMPLOYEES. The Company's future performance depends on the continued services of its key technical and engineering personnel. Significant improvements have been made in the past year to address such issues, in particular, technical redundancy, but the Company continues to depend on the efforts of a limited number of key personnel. The employment of any of the Company's key personnel could cease at any time which could have an adverse affect on our business. Page 11 of 66 THE PASSUR NETWORK COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT THE DELIVERY OF DATA. The Company's network infrastructure is maintained and hosted by AT&T through an existing frame-relay network. If AT&T experiences system failures or fails to adequately maintain the frame-relay network, the Company may experience interruption of delivery of data / software services and customers may terminate or elect not continue to subscribe to these services in the future. The Company's network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks and similar disruptive problems. Computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks or other problems caused by third parties could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation in service to customers. There is currently no existing technology that provides absolute security. Such incidents could deter potential customers and adversely affect existing customer relationships. THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO EXISTING AND NEWLY ISSUED GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF FLIGHT-TRACKING DATA. The Company currently maintains strict safety regulations for its data in order to comply with current government regulations. Due to the continued growing safety needs and concerns of the aviation industry, new government regulations may be implemented. Such new regulations may, in some cases, hinder the Company's ability to provide current and/or additional services. UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE COMPANY'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES BY THIRD PARTIES MAY DAMAGE AND/OR ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and all other intellectual property as critical to our future success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage and/or impair our business. Our intellectual property includes exclusive licenses to use patents held by third parties, as well as Company-owned patents. We rely on trademarks, trade secrets, patent protection and contracts, including confidentiality and non-exclusive license agreements with our customers, employees, consultants, strategic partners and others, to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without our prior knowledge and/or authorization. Prosecuting infringers could be time consuming and costly, and irrespective of whether or not the Company is successful, could disrupt our business. The Company currently has the exclusive license rights to use fifteen patents in the United States and various foreign countries, relating to the Company's PASSUR(R) System and related technologies. The licensed patents expire in various years through 2013. We currently own two issued patents, and one allowed application that is scheduled to issue within three months. In addition, twelve additional patents are pending with the United States Patent Office, some of which relate to newly developed internet-based software applications, derived in large part from the data generated from the Company's PASSUR(R) systems. The issued and allowed patents expire in various years through 2023. We also intend to seek additional patents on our products and technological advances and/or software applications, when appropriate. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued for any of our pending or future patent applications or that any claims allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope, or provide adequate protection or any commercial advantage to the Company. Additionally, our competitors may be able to design around our patents and possibly affect our commercial interests. Page 12 of 66 The Company also owns a federal trademark registration in the mark PASSUR(R) for use with both the PASSUR(R) hardware system installation and the software products which use the data derived from PASSUR(R) and other sources. The PASSUR(R) federal registration will allow the Company to enforce its rights in the mark in the federal court system. The registration does not assure that others will be prevented from using similar trademarks in connection with related products and/or services. DEFENDING AGAINST INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS COULD POSE SIGNIFICANT LEGAL AND PROFESSIONAL COSTS, AND IF UNSUCCESSFUL, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. We cannot guarantee that our future products, technologies and software applications will not inadvertently infringe valid patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. Investigation of any claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect development, marketing, selling or delivery of our products. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and costly, and irrespective of whether or not the Company is successful, could disrupt our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against the Company may result in significant monetary liability and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 