Item 1A. Risk Factors — Waste and Energy Services Business-Specific Risks — Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our results of operations. As with domestic project development, there can be no assurance that all required permits will be issued, and the process can often cause lengthy delays. Regulation Affecting Covanta’s Insurance Business Insurance companies are subject to insurance laws and regulations established by the states in which they transact business. The agencies established pursuant to these state laws have broad administrative and supervisory powers relating to the granting and revocation of licenses to transact business, regulation of trade practices, establishment of guaranty associations, licensing of agents, approval of policy forms, premium rate filing requirements, reserve requirements, the form and content of required regulatory financial statements, capital and surplus requirements and the maximum concentrations of certain classes of investments. Most states also have enacted legislation regulating insurance holding company systems, including acquisitions, extraordinary dividends, the terms of affiliate transactions and other related matters. Covanta and its insurance subsidiaries have registered as holding company systems pursuant to such legislation in California and Montana, and routinely report to other jurisdictions. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has formed committees and appointed advisory groups to study and formulate regulatory proposals on such diverse issues as the use of surplus debentures, accounting for reinsurance transactions and the adoption of risk-based capital requirements. It is not possible to predict the impact of future state and federal regulation on the operations of Covanta or its insurance business. NAICC is an insurance company domiciled in the State of California and is regulated by the California Department of Insurance for the benefit of policyholders. The California Insurance Code does not permit the payment of an extraordinary shareholder dividend without prior approval from the California Insurance Commissioner. Dividends are considered extraordinary if they exceed the greater of net income or 10% of statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31st. As of the date of this filing, and into the foreseeable future, NAICC does not have sufficient accumulated earned surplus to pay dividends. A model for determining the risk-based capital requirements, referred to as “RBC requirements,” for property and casualty insurance companies was adopted in December 1993. The model generally assesses the 26 Table of Contents assets at risk and underwriting operations and determines policyholders’ surplus levels necessary to support such activity. NAICC has calculated its RBC requirement under the most recent RBC requirement model and, as of December 31, 2005, it had capital in excess of the regulatory Authorized Control level. As of December 31, 2005, the RBC requirement of NAICC improved to 589% compared to 361% in 2004. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, Covanta employed 3,600 full-time employees worldwide, of which a majority are employed in the United States. Of Covanta’s employees in the United States, approximately 11% are represented by organized labor. Currently, Covanta Energy is party to seven collective bargaining agreements: two of these agreements are scheduled to expire in 2006, four in 2007, and one in 2008. Covanta considers relations with its employees to be good and does not anticipate any significant labor disputes in 2006. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Age as of February 24, Officer Name Position and Office Held 2006 Since Anthony J. Orlando President and Chief Executive Officer 46 2004 Craig D. Abolt Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 45 2004 John M. Klett Senior Vice President, Operations of Covanta Energy 59 1987 Timothy J. Simpson Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 47 2004 Thomas E. Bucks Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 49 2005 Anthony J. Orlando was named the President and Chief Executive Officer of Covanta in October 2004 and was elected as a director of Covanta in September 2005 and is a member of the Public Policy Committee. Previously, he had been President and Chief Executive Officer of Covanta Energy since November 2003. From March 2003 to November 2003 he served as Senior Vice President, Business and Financial Management of Covanta Energy. From January 2001 until March 2003, Mr. Orlando served as Covanta Energy’s Senior Vice President, Waste-to-Energy. Previously, he served as executive Vice President of Covanta Energy Group, Inc. Mr. Orlando joined Covanta Energy in 1987. Craig D. Abolt has served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta since October 2004. He has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta Energy since June 2004. Prior to joining Covanta, Mr. Abolt served as chief financial officer of DIRECTV Latin America, a majority-owned subsidiary of Hughes Electronics Corporation, from June 2001 until May 2004. From December 1991 until June 2001, he was employed by Walt Disney Company in several executive finance positions. John M. Klett was named Senior Vice President, Operations of Covanta Energy in March 2003. Prior thereto he served as Executive Vice President of Covanta Waste to Energy, Inc. for more than five years. Mr. Klett joined Covanta Energy in 1986. Mr. Klett has been in the waste to energy business since 1977. He has been in the power business since 1965. Timothy J. Simpson has served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Covanta since October 2004. Since March 2004 he has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Covanta Energy. From June 2001 to March 2004, Mr. Simpson served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Covanta Energy. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, 27 Table of Contents Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Covanta Energy Group, Inc. Mr. Simpson joined Covanta Energy in 1992. Thomas E. Bucks has served as the Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Covanta since April 2005. Mr. Bucks served as Covanta’s Controller from February 2005 to April 2005. Prior to joining Covanta, Mr. Bucks served as Senior Vice President — Controller of Centennial Communications Corp., a leading provider of regional wireless and integrated communications services in the United States and the Caribbean, from March 1995 through February 2005, where he was the principal accounting officer and was responsible for accounting operations and external financial reporting. Involvement In Certain Legal Proceedings Messrs. Orlando, Klett and Simpson were officers of Covanta Energy when it filed for bankruptcy and have continued as officers of Covanta Energy after its emergence from bankruptcy and confirmation of its plan of reorganization. As further described in the Business section above, Covanta Energy’s Chapter 11 proceedings commenced on April 1, 2002. Covanta Energy and most of its domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. All of the bankruptcy cases were jointly administered under the caption “In re Ogden New York Services, Inc., et al., Case Nos. 02-40826 (CB), et al.” On March 5, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the plan of reorganization and plan for liquidation for subsidiaries involved in non-core businesses and on March 10, 2004, both plans were effected. Mr. Abolt served as the Chief Financial Officer of DirectTV Latin America, LLC, referred to a “DLA”, when it filed for bankruptcy in March 2003 and after its emergence from bankruptcy and confirmation of its plan of reorganization in February 2004. DLA filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on March 18, 2003 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, which entered an order confirming DLA’s plan of reorganization on February 13, 2004, and the plan became effective on February 24, 2004. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The terms “we,” “our,” “ours,” “us” and “Company” refer to Covanta Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries; the term “Covanta Energy” refers to Covanta Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries; the term “ARC Holdings” refers to Covanta ARC Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and the term “NAICC” refers to National American Insurance Company of California and its subsidiaries. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Covanta Holding Corporation-Specific Risks We cannot be certain that our NOLs will continue to be available to offset our tax liability. As of December 31, 2005, we estimated that we had approximately $489 million of NOLs. In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate consolidated taxable income which can offset such carryforwards. The NOLs are also utilized by income from certain grantor trusts that were established as part of the reorganization of certain of our subsidiaries engaged in the insurance business (which we refer to as the “Mission Insurance entities”). The NOLs will expire if not used. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income could be substantially reduced if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code. We will be treated as having had an “ownership change” if there is more than a 50% increase in stock ownership during a three-year “testing period” by “5% stockholders.” In order to help us preserve the NOLs, our certificate of incorporation contains stock transfer restrictions designed to reduce the risk of an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The transfer restrictions were implemented in 1990, and we expect that the restrictions will remain in force as 28 Table of Contents long as the NOLs are available. We cannot assure you, however, that these restrictions will prevent an ownership change. The NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2006 and 2023. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset our future consolidated taxable income and we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to Covanta Energy under a tax sharing agreement described below or to pay taxes that may be due from our consolidated tax group. Reductions in our NOLs could occur in connection with the administration of the grantor trusts associated with the Mission Insurance entities which are in state insolvency proceedings. During or at the conclusion of the administration of these grantor trusts, material taxable income could result which could utilize a substantial portion of our NOLs, which in turn could materially reduce our cash flow and ability to service our current debt. The impact of a material reduction in our NOLs could also cause an event of default under our current debt and a possible substantial reduction of our deferred tax asset, as reflected in our financial statements. For a more detailed discussion of the Mission Insurance entities and the grantor trusts, please see Note 4. California Grantor Trust Settlement and Note 22. Income Taxes of the Notes and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview. In addition, if our existing insurance business were to require capital infusions from us in order to meet certain regulatory capital requirements and were we to fail to provide such capital, some or all of our subsidiaries comprising our insurance business could enter insurance insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In such event, such subsidiaries may no longer be included in our consolidated tax return, and a portion, which could constitute a significant portion, of our remaining NOLs may no longer be available to us. In such event, there may be a significant inclusion of taxable income in Covanta’s federal consolidated income tax return. Reduced liquidity and price volatility could result in a loss to investors. Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of an investment in our common stock or as to the price an investor may realize upon the sale of our common stock. These prices are determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the liquidity of the market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock, investor perception and general economic and market conditions, company performance, and waste and energy market conditions. Concentrated stock ownership and a restrictive certificate of incorporation provision may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. As of March 3, 2006, SZ Investments (together with EGI Fund (05-07)), Third Avenue and Laminar, separately own or will have the right to acquire approximately 15.78%, 6.00% and 18.46%, respectively, or when aggregated, 40.24% of our outstanding common stock. Although there are no agreements among SZ Investments, Third Avenue and Laminar regarding their voting or disposition of shares of our common stock, the level of their combined ownership of shares of common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, the change in ownership limitations contained in Article Fifth of our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited takeover proposal. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, in connection with the Covanta Energy acquisition financing, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the resale of 29 Table of Contents 17,711,491 shares of our common stock held by Laminar, Third Avenue and SZ Investments, which was declared effective on August 24, 2004. In connection with our acquisition of ARC Holdings, we have agreed to register upon demand, within twelve months of the June 24, 2005 closing of the ARC Holdings acquisition, the resale of certain shares held or acquired by Laminar, Third Avenue and SZ Investments in an underwritten public offering. The potential effect of these shares being sold may be to depress the price at which our common stock trades. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our companies have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any systems of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have in the past discovered, and may potentially in the future, discover areas of our internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Waste and Energy Services Business-Specific Risks In connection with the ARC Holdings acquisition, Covanta has incurred a large amount of debt, and we cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to pay this debt. Following the acquisition of ARC Holdings, Covanta Energy had corporate debt of $675 million, of which $629 million remains outstanding as of December 31, 2005, which we have guaranteed. Our ability to service this debt will depend upon: • the continued operation and maintenance of our facilities, consistent with historical performance levels; • compliance with our debt covenants under our, and our subsidiaries’, various credit arrangements; • compliance by our subsidiaries with their respective debt covenants in order to permit distributions of cash to Covanta Energy; 30 Table of Contents • maintenance or enhancement of revenue from renewals or replacement of existing contracts, and from new contracts to expand existing facilities or operate additional facilities; • market conditions affecting waste disposal and energy pricing, as well as competition from other companies for contract renewals, expansions and additional contracts, particularly after Covanta Energy’s existing contracts expire; and • the continued availability to Covanta Energy of the benefit of our NOLs under a tax sharing agreement. For a more detailed discussion of Covanta Energy’s domestic debt covenants, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources — Waste and Energy Services Segment and Note 18. Long-Term Debt of the Notes. Covanta’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other necessary expenses will depend on its ability to generate cash and receive dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that Covanta Energy’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay this debt. We may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries that may be needed to make payment on Covanta Energy’s debt. Much of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries. Our ability to make payments on the debt incurred by Covanta Energy is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are already subject to project and other financing arrangements and will not guarantee our obligations on Covanta Energy’s debts. The debt agreements of these subsidiaries and affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. In addition, a substantial amount of the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries and affiliates has been pledged as collateral under their respective project financing agreements, or financings at intermediate subsidiary levels, and will be excluded entirely from the liens in favor of Covanta Energy’s financing. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources — Waste and Energy Services Segment and Note 18. Long-Term Debt of the Notes for a more complete description of the terms of such indebtedness. We cannot assure you that certain of the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund payments on the Covanta Energy indebtedness when due. Our ability to grow our Waste and Energy Services business may be limited. Our ability to grow our Waste and Energy Services business by investing in new projects may be limited by debt covenants in Covanta Energy’s principal financing agreements, and by potentially fewer market opportunities for new waste-to-energy facilities. Our Waste and Energy Services business is based upon building and operating municipal solid waste disposal and energy generating projects, which are capital intensive businesses that require financing through direct investment and the incurrence of debt. The covenants in Covanta Energy’s financing agreements limit investments in new projects or acquisitions of new businesses and place restrictions on Covanta Energy’s ability to expand existing projects. The covenants limit borrowings to finance new construction, except in limited circumstances related to expansions of existing facilities. 31 Table of Contents Operation of our Waste and Energy Services facilities and the expansion of facilities involve significant risks. The operation of our Waste and Energy Services facilities and the construction of new or expanded facilities involve many risks, including: • the inaccuracy of our assumptions with respect to the timing and amount of anticipated revenues; • supply interruptions; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • difficulty or inability to find suitable replacement parts for equipment; • the unavailability of sufficient quantities of waste; • decreases in the fees for solid waste disposal; • decreases in the demand or market prices for recovered ferrous or non-ferrous metal; • disruption in the transmission of electricity generated; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; • unanticipated cost overruns; • weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism; • the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and • performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. We cannot predict the impact of these risks on our Waste and Energy Services business or operations. These risks, if they were to occur, could prevent Covanta Energy and its subsidiaries from meeting their obligations under their operating contracts. Development, construction and operation of new projects may not commence as scheduled, or at all. The development and construction of new facilities involves many risks including siting, permitting, financing and construction delays and expenses, start-up problems, the breakdown of equipment and performance below expected levels of output and efficiency. New facilities have no operating history and may employ recently developed technology and equipment. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses maintain insurance to protect against risks relating to the construction of new projects; however, such insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. As a result, a new facility may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its debt service obligations or may operate at a loss. In certain situations, if a facility fails to achieve commercial operation, at certain levels or at all, termination rights in the agreements governing the facility’s financing may be triggered, rendering all of the facility’s debt immediately due and payable. As a result, the facility may be rendered insolvent and we may lose our interest in the facility. Our insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Although our Waste and Energy Services businesses maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors, require contractors to meet certain performance levels and, in some cases, pass risks, we cannot control to the service recipient or output purchaser, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. 32 Table of Contents Performance reductions could materially and adversely affect us and our projects may operate at lower levels than expected. Most service agreements for our waste-to-energy facilities provide for limitations on damages and cross-indemnities among the parties for damages that such parties may incur in connection with their performance under the contract. In most cases, such contractual provisions excuse our Waste and Energy Services businesses from performance obligations to the extent affected by uncontrollable circumstances and provide for service fee adjustments if uncontrollable circumstances increase its costs. We cannot assure you that these provisions will prevent our Waste and Energy Services businesses from incurring losses upon the occurrence of uncontrollable circumstances or that if our Waste and Energy Services businesses were to incur such losses they would continue to be able to service their debt. Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries have issued or are party to performance guarantees and related contractual obligations associated with its waste-to-energy, independent power and water facilities. With respect to its domestic businesses, Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries have issued guarantees to their municipal clients and other parties that Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries will perform in accordance with contractual terms, including, where required, the payment of damages or other obligations. The obligations guaranteed will depend upon the contract involved. Many of Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries have contracts to operate and maintain waste-to-energy facilities. In these contracts the subsidiary typically commits to operate and maintain the facility in compliance with legal requirements; to accept minimum amounts of solid waste; to generate a minimum amount of electricity per ton of waste; and to pay damages to contract counterparties under specified circumstances, including those where the operating subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for default. Any contractual damages or other obligations incurred by Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries could be material, and in circumstances where one or more subsidiary’s contract has been terminated for its default, such damages could include amounts sufficient to repay project debt. Additionally, damages payable under such guarantees on our owned waste-to-energy facilities could expose us to recourse liability on project debt. Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages or other obligations. We cannot assure you that Covanta Energy and such subsidiaries will be able to continue to avoid incurring material payment obligations under such guarantees or that if it did incur such obligations that they would have the cash resources to pay them. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses generate their revenue primarily under long-term contracts and must avoid defaults under their contracts in order to service their debt and avoid material liability to contract counterparties. Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries must satisfy performance and other obligations under contracts governing waste-to-energy facilities. These contracts typically require Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries to meet certain performance criteria relating to amounts of waste processed, energy generation rates per ton of waste processed, residue quantity and environmental standards. The failure of Covanta Energy subsidiaries to satisfy these criteria may subject them to termination of their respective operating contracts. If such a termination were to occur, Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries would lose the cash flow related to the projects and incur material termination damage liability, which may be guaranteed by Covanta Energy or certain of its subsidiaries. In circumstances where the contract of one or more subsidiaries has been terminated due to the default of the Covanta Energy subsidiary they may not have sufficient sources of cash to pay such damages. We cannot assure you that Covanta Energy’s subsidiaries will be able to continue to perform their respective obligations under such contracts in order to avoid such contract terminations, or damages related to any such contract termination, or that if they could not avoid such terminations that they would have the cash resources to pay amounts that may then become due. 33 Table of Contents Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries have provided guarantees and support in connection with its subsidiaries’ projects. Covanta Energy and certain of its subsidiaries are obligated to guarantee or provide financial support for its subsidiaries’ projects in one or more of the following forms: • support agreements in connection with service or operating agreement-related obligations; • direct guarantees of certain debt relating to three of its facilities; • contingent obligation to pay lease payment installments in connection with three of its facilities; • contingent credit support for damages arising from performance failures; • environmental indemnities; and • contingent capital and credit support to finance costs, in most cases in connection with a corresponding increase in service fees, relating to uncontrollable circumstances. Many of these contingent obligations cannot readily be quantified, but, if we were required to provide this support, it may be material to our cash flow and financial condition. Covanta Energy may face increased risk of market influences on its domestic revenues after its contracts expire. Covanta Energy’s contracts to operate waste-to-energy projects expire on various dates between 2008 and 2023, and its contracts to sell energy output generally expire when the project’s operating contract expires. Expiration of these contracts will subject Covanta to greater market risk in maintaining and enhancing its revenues. As its operating contracts at municipally-owned projects approach expiration, Covanta Energy will seek to enter into renewal or replacement contracts to continue operating such projects. However, we cannot assure you that Covanta Energy will be able to enter into renewal or replacement contracts on terms favorable to it, or at all. Covanta Energy will seek to bid competitively for additional contracts to operate other facilities as similar contracts of other vendors expire. The expiration of existing energy sales contracts, if not renewed, will require Covanta Energy to sell project energy output either into the electricity grid or pursuant to new contracts. At some of our facilities, market conditions may allow Covanta Energy to effect extensions of existing operating contracts along with facility expansions. Such extensions and expansions are currently being considered at a limited number of Covanta Energy’s facilities in conjunction with its municipal clients. If Covanta Energy is unable to reach agreement with its municipal clients on the terms under which it would implement such extensions and expansions, or if the implementation of these extensions, including renewals and replacement contracts, and expansions are materially delayed, this may adversely affect Covanta Energy’s cash flow and profitability. We cannot assure you that Covanta Energy will be able to enter into such contracts or that the terms available in the market at the time will be favorable to it. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses depend on performance by third parties under contractual arrangements. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses depend on a limited number of third parties to, among other things, purchase the electric and steam energy produced by its facilities, and supply and deliver the waste and other goods and services necessary for the operation of our energy facilities. The viability of our facilities depends significantly upon the performance by third parties in accordance with long-term contracts, and such performance depends on factors which may be beyond our control. If those third parties do not perform their obligations, or are excused from performing their obligations because of nonperformance by our Waste and Energy Services businesses or other parties to the contracts, or due to force majeure events or changes in laws or regulations, our Waste and Energy Services businesses may not be able to secure alternate arrangements on substantially the same terms, if at all, for the services provided under the contracts. In addition, the 34 Table of Contents bankruptcy or insolvency of a participant or third party in our Waste and Energy Services facilities could result in nonpayment or nonperformance of that party’s obligations to us. Concentration of suppliers and customers may expose us to heightened financial exposure. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses often rely on single suppliers and single customers at our facilities, exposing such facilities to financial risks if any supplier or customer should fail to perform its obligations. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses often rely on a single supplier to provide waste, fuel, water and other services required to operate a facility and on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s output. In most cases our Waste and Energy Services businesses have long-term agreements with such suppliers and customers in order to mitigate the risk of supply interruption. The financial performance of these facilities depends on such customers and suppliers continuing to perform their obligations under their long-term agreements. A facility’s financial results could be materially and adversely affected if any one customer or supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and we are unable to find other customers or suppliers to produce the same level of profitability. We cannot assure you that such performance failures by third parties will not occur, or that if they do occur, such failures will not adversely affect the cash flows or profitability of our Waste and Energy Services business. In addition, for their waste-to-energy facilities, our subsidiaries rely on their municipal clients as a source not only of waste for fuel but also of revenue from fees for disposal services our subsidiaries provide. Because contracts of our subsidiaries with their municipal clients are generally long-term, our subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the credit quality of one or more of their municipal clients were to decline materially. Our Waste and Energy Services business is subject to pricing fluctuations caused by the waste disposal and energy markets. While our Waste and Energy Services businesses both sell the majority of their waste disposal capacity and energy output pursuant to long-term contracts, a portion of this capacity and output representing approximately 30% of our anticipated revenue through 2009 is subject to market price fluctuation. With the acquisition of ARC Holdings, a larger percentage of our revenue is subject to market risk from fluctuations in waste market prices than has historically been the case. Consequently, short-term fluctuations in the waste and energy markets may have a greater impact on our revenues than we have previously experienced. Covanta Energy’s waste operations are concentrated in one region, and expose us to regional economic or market declines. The majority of Covanta Energy’s waste disposal facilities are located in the northeastern United States, primarily along the Washington, D.C. to Boston, Massachusetts corridor. Adverse economic developments in this region could affect regional waste generation rates and demand for waste disposal services provided by Covanta Energy. Adverse market developments caused by additional waste disposal capacity in this region could adversely affect waste disposal pricing. Either of these developments could have a material adverse effect on Covanta Energy’s revenues and cash generation. Some of Covanta Energy’s energy contracts involve greater risk of exposure to performance levels which could result in materially lower revenues. Eight of our 31 waste-to-energy facilities receive 100% of the energy revenues they generate. As a result, if we are unable to operate these facilities at their historical performance levels for any reason, our revenues from energy sales could materially decrease. 35 Table of Contents We may be unable to integrate the operations of ARC Holdings and Covanta Energy successfully and may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the recent acquisition of ARC Holdings will depend in part upon our ability to integrate the two companies’ businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Our attempt to integrate two companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the necessity of coordinating organizations in additional locations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the businesses of the combined company. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt the businesses of the combined company. Any inability of management to successfully integrate ARC Holdings’ operations with the operations of Covanta Energy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The anticipated benefits of the transaction include the elimination of duplicative costs, the strategic expansion of Covanta Energy’s core waste-to-energy business in the northeast region of the United States and the strengthening of Covanta Energy’s credit profile and lowering of our cost of capital. We may not be able to realize, in whole or in part, or within the anticipated time frames, any of these expected costs savings or improvements. The realization of the anticipated benefits of the transaction are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our expected results of operations and our actual income, cash flow or earnings available to satisfy debt obligations may be materially lower than the pro forma results we have previously filed with the SEC. Exposure to international economic and political factors may materially and adversely affect our Waste and Energy Services businesses. CPIH is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covanta Energy. CPIH’s operations are conducted entirely outside the United States and expose it to legal, tax, currency, inflation, convertibility and repatriation risks, as well as potential constraints on the development and operation of potential business, any of which can limit the benefits to CPIH of a foreign project. CPIH’s projected cash distributions from existing facilities come from facilities located in countries with sovereign ratings below investment grade, including Bangladesh, the Philippines and India. The financing, development and operation of projects outside the United States can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including: • changes in law or regulations; • changes in electricity tariffs; • changes in foreign tax laws and regulations; • changes in United States federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations; • compliance with United States federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws; • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets; • changes in labor relations in operations outside the United States; • political, economic or military instability and civil unrest; and • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. 36 Table of Contents The legal and financial environment in foreign countries in which CPIH currently owns assets or projects also could make it more difficult for it to enforce its rights under agreements relating to such projects. Any or all of the risks identified above with respect to the CPIH projects could adversely affect our revenue and cash generation. As a result, these risks may have a material adverse effect on our Waste and Energy Services business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may affect CPIH’s costs of operations. CPIH participates in projects in jurisdictions where limitations on the convertibility and expatriation of currency have been lifted by the host country and where such local currency is freely exchangeable on the international markets. In most cases, components of project costs incurred or funded in the currency of the United States are recovered with limited exposure to currency fluctuations through negotiated contractual adjustments to the price charged for electricity or service provided. This contractual structure may cause the cost in local currency to the project’s power purchaser or service recipient to rise from time to time in excess of local inflation. As a result, there is a risk in such situations that such power purchaser or service recipient will, at least in the near term, be less able or willing to pay for the project’s power or service. Exposure to fuel supply prices may affect CPIH’s costs and results of operations. Changes in the market prices and availability of fuel supplies to generate electricity may increase CPIH’s cost of producing power, which could adversely impact our energy businesses’ profitability and financial performance. The market prices and availability of fuel supplies of some of CPIH’s facilities fluctuate. Any price increase, delivery disruption or reduction in the availability of such supplies could affect CPIH’s ability to operate its facilities and impair its cash flow and profitability. CPIH may be subject to further exposure if any of its future operations are concentrated in facilities using fuel types subject to fluctuating market prices and availability. We may not be successful in our efforts to mitigate our exposure to supply and price swings. Our inability to obtain resources for operations may adversely affect our ability to effectively compete. Our waste-to-energy facilities depend on solid waste for fuel, which provides a source of revenue. For most of our facilities, the prices they charge for disposal of solid waste are fixed under long-term contracts and the supply is guaranteed by sponsoring municipalities. However, for some of our waste-to-energy facilities, the availability of solid waste to us, as well as the tipping fee that we must charge to attract solid waste to its facilities, depends upon competition from a number of sources such as other waste-to-energy facilities, landfills and transfer stations competing for waste in the market area. In addition, we may need to obtain waste on a competitive basis as our long-term contracts expire at our owned facilities. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the solid waste industry which would reduce the number of solid waste collectors or haulers that are competing for disposal facilities or enable such collectors or haulers to use wholesale purchasing to negotiate favorable below-market disposal rates. The consolidation in the solid waste industry has resulted in companies with vertically integrated collection activities and disposal facilities. Such consolidation may result in economies of scale for those companies as well as the use of disposal capacity at facilities owned by such companies or by affiliated companies. Such activities can affect both the availability of waste to us for disposal at some of our waste-to-energy facilities and market pricing. Our efforts to grow our business will require us to incur significant costs in business development, often over extended periods of time, with no guarantee of success. Our efforts to grow our waste and energy business will depend in part on how successful we are in developing new projects and expanding existing projects. The development period for each project may occur over several years, during which we incur substantial expenses relating to siting, design, permitting, community relations, financing, and professional fees associated with all of the foregoing. Not all of our development efforts will be successful, and we may decide to cease developing a project for a variety of 37 Table of Contents reasons. If the cessation of our development efforts were to occur at an advanced stage of development, we may have incurred a material amount of expenses for which we will realize no return. Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our results of operations. Costs of compliance with federal, state and local existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities, primarily relating to air, waste (including residual ash from combustion) and water. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in operating our facilities. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. Environmental regulations may also limit our ability to operate our facilities at maximum capacity or at all. If our Waste and Energy Services businesses fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. This may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our facilities into compliance. In addition, lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal and/or state regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Stricter environmental regulation of air emissions, solid waste handling or combustion, residual ash handling and disposal, and waste water discharge could materially affect our cash flow and profitability. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation of our facilities could be jeopardized or become subject to additional costs. Energy regulation could adversely affect our revenues and costs of operations. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses are subject to extensive energy regulations by federal, state and foreign authorities. We cannot predict whether the federal, state or foreign governments will modify or adopt new legislation or regulations relating to the solid waste or energy industries. The economics, including the costs, of operating our facilities may be adversely affected by any changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation or any future inability to comply with existing or future regulations or requirements. The FPA regulates energy generating companies and their subsidiaries and places constraints on the conduct of their business. The FPA regulates wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Under PURPA, our domestic facilities are exempt from most provisions of the FPA and state rate regulation. Our foreign projects are also exempt from regulation under the FPA. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 enacted comprehensive changes to the domestic energy industry which may affect our businesses. The Energy Policy Act removed certain regulatory constraints that previously limited the ability of utilities and utility holding companies to invest in certain activities and businesses, which may have the effect over time of increasing competition in energy markets in which we participate. In addition, the Energy Policy Act includes provisions that may remove some of the benefits provided to non-utility electricity generators, like Covanta Energy, after its existing energy sale contracts expire. As a result, we may face increased competition after such expirations occur. If our Waste and Energy Services businesses become subject to either the FPA or lose the ability under PURPA to require utilities to purchase our electricity, the economics and operations of our energy projects could be adversely affected, including as a result of rate regulation by the FERC, with respect to our output of electricity, which could result in lower prices for sales of electricity. In addition, depending on the terms of the project’s power purchase agreement, a loss of our exemptions could allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity under existing contracts. Such results could cause the loss of some or all contract revenues or otherwise impair the value of a project and could trigger defaults under provisions of the 38 Table of Contents applicable project contracts and financing agreements. Defaults under such financing agreements could render the underlying debt immediately due and payable. Under such circumstances, we cannot assure you that revenues received, the costs incurred, or both, in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals could adversely affect our operations. Our Waste and Energy Services businesses are continually in the process of obtaining or renewing federal, state and local approvals required to operate our facilities. While our Waste and Energy Services businesses currently have all necessary operating approvals, we may not always be able to obtain all required regulatory approvals, and we may not be able to obtain any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with any required regulatory approvals, the operation of our facilities or the sale of electricity to third parties could be prevented, made subject to additional regulation or subject our Waste and Energy Services businesses to additional costs or a decrease in revenue. The energy industry is becoming increasingly competitive, and we might not successfully respond to these changes. We may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the changes resulting in increased competition in the energy industry in both domestic and international markets. These changes may include deregulation of the electric utility industry in some markets, privatization of the electric utility industry in other markets and increasing competition in all markets. To the extent U.S. competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of our business may come under increasing pressure. Regulatory initiatives in foreign countries where our Waste and Energy Services businesses have or will have operations involve the same types of risks. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to dispose of waste or produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines and solar cells. It is possible that advances in these or other technologies will reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production from these technologies to a level below our costs. Furthermore, increased conservation efforts could reduce the demand for power or reduce the value of our facilities. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction and combination-related costs in connection with the acquisition of ARC Holdings. We expect to incur significant costs, which we currently estimate to be approximately $20 million through 2007, including costs incurred to date, associated with combining the operations of Covanta Energy and ARC Holdings. However, we cannot predict with certainty the specific size of those charges at this preliminary stage of the integration process. Although we expect the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved as planned in the near future or at all. Insurance Business-Specific Risks Insurance regulations may affect NAICC’s operations. The insurance industry is highly regulated. NAICC is subject to regulation by state and federal regulators, and a significant portion of NAICC’s operations are subject to regulation by the state of California. Changes in existing insurance regulations or adoption of new regulations or laws which could affect NAICC’s results of operations and financial condition may include, without limitation, proposed changes to California’s personal automobile rating regulations extension of California’s Low Cost Automobile Program beyond Los Angeles and San Francisco counties and changes to California’s workers’ compensation laws. We cannot 39 Table of Contents predict the impact of changes in existing insurance regulations or adoption of new regulations or laws on NAICC’s results of operations and financial condition. The insurance products sold by NAICC are subject to intense competition. The insurance products sold by NAICC are subject to intense competition from many competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources than NAICC. The California non-standard personal automobile marketplace consists of over 100 carriers. In order to decrease rates, insurers in California must obtain prior permission for rate reductions from the California Department of Insurance. In lieu of requesting rate decreases, competitors may soften underwriting standards as an alternative means of attracting new business. Such tactics, should they occur, would introduce new levels of risk for NAICC and could limit NAICC’s ability to write new policies or renew existing profitable policies. We cannot assure you that NAICC will be able to successfully compete in these markets and generate sufficient premium volume at attractive prices to be profitable. This risk is enhanced by the reduction in lines of business NAICC writes as a result of its decision to reduce underwriting operations. If NAICC’s loss experience exceeds its estimates, additional capital may be required. Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based on estimates of reported losses, historical company experience of losses reported for reinsurance assumed and historical company experience for unreported claims. Such liability is, by necessity, based on estimates that may change in the near term. NAICC cannot assure you that the ultimate liabilities will not exceed, or even materially exceed, the amounts estimated. If the ultimate liability materially exceeds estimates, then additional capital may be required to be contributed to some of our insurance subsidiaries. NAICC and the other insurance subsidiaries received additional capital contributions from us in 2003 and 2002, and NAICC cannot provide any assurance that it and its subsidiaries will be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, due to the fact that NAICC and its other insurance subsidiaries are in the process of running off several significant lines of business, the risk of adverse development and the subsequent requirement to obtain additional capital is heightened. Failure to satisfy capital adequacy and risk-based capital requirements would require NAICC to obtain additional capital. NAICC is subject to regulatory risk-based capital requirements. Depending on its risk-based capital, NAICC could be subject to various levels of increasing regulatory intervention ranging from company action to mandatory control by insurance regulatory authorities. NAICC’s capital and surplus is also one factor used to determine its ability to distribute or loan funds to us. If NAICC has insufficient capital and surplus, as determined under the risk-based capital test, it will need to obtain additional capital to establish additional reserves. NAICC cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to obtain such additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 40 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 