ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of and in reliance on the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk factors discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business The primary markets we serve are highly competitive, and our ability to compete requires continual focus on delivering high quality, competitively priced products and the regular introduction of new products that meet evolving customer requirements. Competition in the markets for voice and data communications products is intense. We believe our ability to compete with other manufacturers of these products depends primarily on our engineering, manufacturing and marketing skills; the price, quality and reliability of our products; our delivery and service capabilities; and our control of operating expenses. We have experienced, and anticipate continuing to experience, pricing pressures from our customers as well as our competitors. The markets we serve are characterized by rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards. These markets can be significantly affected by new product introductions and marketing activities of industry participants. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, and personnel resources than us. Present and future competitors may be able to identify new markets and develop products more quickly, which are superior to those developed by us. They may also adapt new technologies faster, devote greater resources to research and development, promote products more aggressively, and price products more competitively than us. There are no assurances that competition will not intensify or that we will be able to compete effectively in the markets in which we compete. We face many challenges in maintaining acceptable margins, and our level of gross margin may not be sustainable. Gross margins among our products vary and are subject to fluctuation from quarter to quarter. The factors that may impact our gross margins adversely are numerous and include: • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix; • Our ability to reduce product costs; • Increases in material or labor costs; • Expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements; • Excess inventory and inventory carrying charges; • Obsolescence charges; • Changes in shipment volume; • Changes in component pricing; • Increased price competition; • Changes in distribution channels; • Increased warranty cost; and • Our ability to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 8 Consolidation among our customers has occurred and further consolidation may occur and result in the loss of some customers and may reduce revenue during the pendency of business combinations and related integration activities. We believe consolidation among our customers in the future may occur in order for them to increase market share and achieve greater economies of scale. Consolidation has impacted our business as our customers focus on completing business combinations and integrating their operations. In certain instances, customers integrating large-scale acquisitions have reduced their purchases of our products during the integration period. The impact of significant mergers among our customers on our business is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions are completed. After a consolidation occurs, a customer may choose to reduce the number of vendors from which it purchases equipment and may choose one of our competitors as its preferred vendor. There can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving communications service provider after a business combination is completed. Our profitability could be impacted negatively if one or more of our key customers substantially reduces orders for our products and/or transitions their purchases towards lower gross margin products. Our customer base is somewhat concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 60%, 54% and 54% of net sales for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. One of our largest customers, Verizon, accounted for 5%, of our net sales in each of the fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. The merger of AT&T and BellSouth in our fiscal 2007 created another large customer for us. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, this combined company accounted for approximately 12% and 10% of our sales, respectively. If we lose a significant customer for any reason, our sales and gross profit will be impacted negatively. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and, to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The communications equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing market conditions and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products using new technologies or the adoption of new industry standards can make our existing products, or products under development, obsolete or unmarketable. In order to remain competitive and increase sales, we will need to adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing products and introduce new products to address the changing demands of our customers. We may not predict technological trends or the success of new products in the communications equipment market accurately. New product development often requires forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new technologies and processes and substantial capital commitments. We do not know whether other new products we develop will gain market acceptance or result in profitable sales. Certain of our competitors have greater engineering and product development resources than we have. Although we expect to continue to invest significant resources in product development activities, our efforts to achieve and maintain profitability will require us to be selective and focused with our research and development expenditures. If we fail to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or if we experience any significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, operating results and financial condition could be affected adversely. The communications technology industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and rapidly changing customer requirements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products, to introduce new products to meet changing customer requirements and emerging technologies, and to demonstrate the performance advantages and cost-effectiveness of our products over competing products. Failure by us to modify our products to support new alternative technologies or failure to achieve widespread customer acceptance of such modified products could cause us to lose market share and cause our revenues to decline. 9 We may experience delays in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these products or product enhancements, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve any significant or sustainable degree of market acceptance in existing or additional markets. In addition, the future introductions or announcements of products by us or one of our competitors embodying new technologies or changes in industry standards or customer requirements could render our then-existing products obsolete or unmarketable. There can be no assurance that the introduction or announcement of new product offerings by us or one or more of our competitors will not cause customers to defer their purchase of our existing products, which could cause our revenues to decline We expect to actively pursue strategic acquisitions, but we may not successfully close the acquisitions and, if these acquisitions are completed, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses with our existing operations. We regularly consider the acquisition of complementary companies and/or product lines. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to find appropriate candidates for acquisitions, reach agreement to acquire them, or obtain requisite shareholder or regulatory approvals needed to close strategic acquisitions. The significant effort and management attention invested in a strategic acquisition may not result in a completed transaction. The impact of future acquisitions on our business, operating results and financial condition are not known at this time. In the case of businesses we may acquire in the future, we may have difficulty assimilating these businesses and their products, services, technologies and personnel into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, we may not be able to retain key management and other critical employees after an acquisition. We may also acquire unanticipated liabilities. In addition to these risks, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including the following: • the volume and timing of orders from shipments to our customers; • the overall level of capital expenditures by our customers; • work stoppages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; • the timing of and our ability to obtain new customer contracts and the timing of revenue recognition; • the timing of new product and service announcements; • the availability of products and services; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees; and • the availability and cost of key components of our products. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular quarter are lower than expected, our operating results will be affected adversely. We depend on manufacturing relationships and on limited-source suppliers, and any disruptions in these relationships may cause damage to our customer relationships. We procure all parts and certain services involved in the production of our products and subcontract much of our product manufacturing to outside firms that specialize in such services. Although most of the components of our products are available from multiple vendors, we have several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous to us. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will be able to meet our future requirements for products and components in a timely fashion. In addition, the availability of many of these components to us is dependent in part on our ability to provide our suppliers with accurate forecasts of our future requirements. Delays or lost sales could be caused by other factors beyond our control, including defects in the quality of components or products supplied by others. 10 We are dependent upon our senior management and other critical employees. Like all communications technology companies, our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management personnel and other critical employees, including those in sales, marketing and product development functions. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate these employees is critical to our success. In addition, because we may acquire one or more businesses in the future, our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain and integrate our own personnel with personnel from acquired entities that are necessary to the continued success or the successful integration of the acquired businesses. Managing our inventory is complex and may include write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is complicated by a number of factors, including the need to maintain a significant inventory of finished goods for orders we anticipate but may not be received. These issues may cause us to purchase and maintain significant amounts of inventory. If this inventory is not used as expected based on anticipated requirements, it may become excess or obsolete. The existence of excess or obsolete inventory can result in sales price reductions and/or inventory write-downs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with our expanding our sales outside of the United States. We believe that our future growth is dependent in part upon our ability to increase sales in international markets. These sales are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences, and export license requirements. In addition, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business strategy and financial condition. Compliance with internal control requirements is expensive and poses certain risks. We expect to incur significant continuing costs, including accounting fees and staffing costs, in order to maintain compliance with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Expansion of our business, particularly internationally, will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. In addition, if we complete acquisitions in the future, our ability to integrate operations of the acquired company could impact our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain that as our business changes, our current design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management to determine that our internal controls are effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. In the future, if we fail to complete the annual Section 404 evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance requirements, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: • delayed market acceptance of our products; 11 • delayed product shipments; • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors; • damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; • delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and • product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile historically and the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareholder rights agreement and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights agreement (also known as a “poison pill”) and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable, and could limit the price that investors are willing to pay for our common stock. These provisions include the following: • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals; • authorization for our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; • authorization for our board of directors to issue preferred stock purchase rights upon a third party’s acquisition of 16.5% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock; and • limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of our company even though our shareholders would receive an attractive value for their shares, or a significant number of our shareholders believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 