ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are material in relation to our business, financial condition and results of operations and could adversely impact the achievement of forward looking statements. Accordingly, the following risk factors should be considered when reviewing other information set forth in this report: • A failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business. The Company is in the process of documenting and testing its internal controls as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company has incurred significant costs in complying with these requirements, including increased staffing costs, increased accounting and auditing fees and more consulting fees. In addition, the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley may limit the ability of the Company to make future acquisitions or will restrict the types of business it can consider acquiring. Failure by the Company to adequately meet the internal control requirements would be reported in the Company’s filings to the Securities and Exchange Commission – which could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and its stock price. • Anti-takeover provisions in Minnesota law and our shareholder rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”) could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company. These provisions include advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals, limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders and authorization for the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. These provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from bidding for the Company, even if a significant number of shareholders believe a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. • Our stock price is volatile. Based on the trading history of our common stock and the nature of the market for publicly traded securities of companies in our industry, we believe that some factors have caused and are likely to continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could occur day-to-day or over a longer period of time and may be accentuated by the lack of liquidity in our stock. The factors that may cause such fluctuations include, without limitation: - Announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; - Quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or customers; - Increased competition with our competitors or among our customers; - Consolidation among our competitors or customers; - Disputes concerning intellectual property rights; - The financial health of Communications Systems, Inc., our competitors or our customers; - General economic conditions in the United States or internationally; and - Rumors or speculation regarding our future business results and actions. In addition, stocks of companies in our industry in the past have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. This market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. • JDL Technologies has made investments in plant and equipment to support its business with Broward County schools and the U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Education (VIDE). JDL’s business arrangements with these entities are generally based on contracts with durations of one-year or less. Should JDL lose its business of these customers, whether due to competition or for other reasons, its operations could be harmed and the value of its assets impaired. On January 17, 2008 the Company was notified by VIDE, a long term customer of JDL since 1998 that the Company was not selected as a vendor to provide services for the 2008 – 2009 school year. See Item 7 and Note 11-Subsequent Events in the Notes to the Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further impairment discussion • In April 2006, the Company was notified that JDL Technologies was being investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice regarding false claims for E-RATE funding involving the VIDE. Should the investigation result in a determination that JDL acted improperly or illegally the resulting fines or sanctions could negatively affect the Company’s operations and financial position. 9 • The general health of the telecom sector, including the financial condition of our customers, and other general economic conditions could impact the strength of demand for our products and could negatively impact revenue and income. • General economic and political conditions, such as political instability in our foreign manufacturing supplier markets, the rate of economic growth in our principal geographic or product markets, could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results. • Government funding of education technology spending could significantly impact the operations of JDL Technologies which recognized revenue of approximately $7.9 million and $3.0 million related to federal funding in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. Costs to comply with government requirements necessary to obtain funding could adversely affect profit margins. Failure by JDL or its customers to comply with these requirements could make needed funding unavailable. • The ability of the Company to continue to manufacture competitive products and technologies is essential to the operations of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to raise prices or successfully maintain market position or enter certain markets and is affected by: the intensity of competition (including foreign competitors), pricing pressures and the introduction of new products and enhancements by competitors. • Delays in introductions and market acceptance of the new products could create inventory risk and reduced margins and sales. • Reduced sales and/or lack of ability to maintain or expand relationships with major telephone companies and other major customers could significantly impact revenues and income. • Higher than expected expenses related to new sales and marketing initiatives could negatively impact earnings. • If there is not adequate availability of supplies of raw materials and components without interruption, including foreign manufacturers, profit margins could be negatively impacted. • The continued improvement in manufacturing activities and the achievement of related efficiencies, cost reductions, and inventory risks due to shifts in market demand and costs associated with moving production overseas might not be successful and could negatively impact the financial condition of the Company. • There could be unanticipated developments that could occur with respect to contingencies such as litigation, including unfavorable resolution of claims, intellectual property matters and product warranty or liability exposures. These factors could impact future profitability and result in poor financial performance • Changes in our business strategies, including acquisitions, divestitures, and restructuring activities could impact the operations of the Company. New acquisitions might not be successfully integrated or profitable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 