ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations. This could result in a decline in the price of our securities and loss of some or all of your investment. Accordingly, the following risk factors should be considered when reviewing other information set forth in this report should also be considered The following factors may impact the achievement of forward-looking statements: • The general health of the telecom sector, including the financial condition of our customers, and other general economic conditions could impact the strength of demand for our products and could negatively impact revenue and income. • General economic and political conditions, such as political instability in our foreign manufacturing supplier markets, the rate of economic growth in our principal geographic or product markets, could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results. • Government funding of education technology spending could significantly impact the operations of JDL Technologies which recognized revenue of approximately $7.0 million and $4.0 million related to federal funding in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. • The ability of the Company to continue to manufacture competitive products and technologies is essential to the operations of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to raise prices or successfully maintain market position or enter certain markets and is affected by: the intensity of competition (including foreign competitors), pricing pressures and the introduction of new products and enhancements by competitors. • Delays in introductions and market acceptance of the new products could create inventory risk and reduced margins and sales • Reduced sales and/or lack of ability to maintain or expand relationships with RBOCs and other major customers could significantly impact revenues and income. • Higher than expected expense related to new sales and marketing initiatives could negatively impact earnings 7 • If there is not adequate availability of supplies of raw materials and components without interruption, including foreign manufacturers, profit margins could be negatively impacted. • The continued improvement in manufacturing activities and the achievement of related efficiencies, cost reductions, and inventory risks due to shifts in market demand and costs associated with moving production overseas might not be successful and could negatively impact the financial condition of the Company. • There could be unanticipated developments that could occur with respect to contingencies such as litigation, including unfavorable resolution of claims, intellectual property matters, product warranty or liability exposures. These factors could impact future profitability and result in poor financial performance • Changes in our business strategies, including acquisitions, divestitures, and restructuring activities could impact the operations of the Company. New acquisitions might not be successfully integrated or profitable. The company might not be able to complete the sale of the discontinued operations of Austin Taylor on terms that are acceptable to the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 