Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and plans. Although we believe our expectations and plans are reasonable and made in good faith, we can provide no assurance that they will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and would be significantly affected by the material risk factors set forth below and other risks described in our public filings with the SEC. We may not be able to accurately predict utilization of our full-risk contracts resulting in contracts priced at levels insufficient to ensure profitability. Managed care operations are at risk for costs incurred to provide agreed upon levels of service. Failure to anticipate or control costs could have material, adverse effects on the Company. Providing services on a full-risk capitation basis exposes CompCare to the additional risk that contracts negotiated and entered into may ultimately be unprofitable if utilization levels require us to provide services at capitation rates which do not account for or factor in such utilization levels. Our existing and potential managed care clients operate in a highly competitive environment and may be subject to a higher rate of merger, acquisition and regulation than in other industries. We typically contract with small to medium sized HMO’s which may be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. Our clients may also determine to manage the behavioral healthcare benefits “in house” and, as a result, discontinue contracting with the Company. Additionally, our clients may be acquired by larger HMOs, in which case there can be no assurance that the acquiring company would renew our contract. Many managed care companies, including eight of our existing clients, provide services to groups covered by Medicaid and/or CHIP programs. Such state controlled programs are susceptible to annual changes in reimbursement rates and eligibility requirements that could ultimately affect companies such as CompCare. As of May 31, 2006, we managed approximately 517,000 lives in connection with behavioral and substance abuse services covered through CHIP and Medicaid programs in Texas and Medicaid in Florida and Michigan. Of the 517,000 covered lives, 127,000 are related to contracts terminating May 31, 2006. Any changes in CHIP or Medicaid reimbursement could ultimately affect the Company through contract bidding and cost structures with the health plans first impacted by such changes. Benefits available to Texas CHIP recipients were significantly reduced for the five-month period from September 1, 2003 to January 31, 2004 as a result of legislative bills passed by the Texas State legislature. Although subsequent legislation restored the majority of benefits available to CHIP recipients effective February 1, 2004, the temporary reduction in revenues had a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2004. Such changes, if implemented in the future, could have a material, adverse impact on our operations. Additionally, we cannot predict which states in which we operate may pass legislation that would reduce our revenue through changes in the reimbursement rates or in the number of 9 Table of Contents COMPREHENSIVE CARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES eligible participants. In either case, we may be unable to reduce our costs to a level that would allow us to maintain current gross margins specific to our Medicaid and CHIP programs. Because providers are responsible for claims submission, the timing of which is uncertain, we must estimate the amount of claims incurred but not reported. Our costs of care include estimated amounts for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR is estimated using an actuarial paid completion factor methodology and other statistical analyses that we continually review and adjust, if necessary, to reflect any change in the estimated liability. These estimates are subject to the effects of trends in utilization and other factors. Our estimates of IBNR may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect results of operations. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, we believe that our unpaid claims liability is adequate. However, actual results may differ materially from the estimated amounts reported. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Our future testing or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, which would require additional financial and management resources. A failure of our information systems would significantly impair our ability to serve our customers and manage our business. An effective and secure information system, available at all times, is vital to our health plans and their members. We depend on our computer systems for significant service and management functions, such as providing membership verification, monitoring utilization, processing provider claims, and providing regulatory data and other client and managerial reports. Any loss of availability of our current information system would cause a disruption in operations and impact our performance. We are subject to intense competition that may prevent us from gaining new customers or pricing our contracts at levels to achieve sufficient gross margins to ensure profitability. The Company is continually and aggressively pursuing new business. However, the smaller size and financial condition of our company has proved a deterrent to some prospective customers. Additionally, we will likely have difficulty in matching the financial resources expended on marketing characteristic of our competitors. As a result, we may not be able to realize our forecasted short and long-term growth plans. As a result of our dependence on a limited number of customers, the loss of any one of these customers, or a reduction in business from any one of them, could have a material, adverse effect on our working capital and future results of operations. We currently have contracts with eight health plans to provide behavioral healthcare services under commercial, Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP plans. These combined contracts represent approximately 87.0% and 78.3% of our operating revenue for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005, respectively, one of which represented more than 20% of our operating revenues during our fiscal year ended May 31, 2006. The terms of each contract are generally for one-year periods and are automatically renewable for additional one-year periods unless terminated by either party. The loss of one or more of these clients, without replacement by new business, would negatively affect the financial condition of the Company. The industry is subject to extensive state and federal regulations, as well as diverse licensure requirements varying by state. Changes in regulations could affect the profitability of our contracts or our ability to retain clients or to gain new customers. CompCare holds licenses or certificates to perform utilization review and TPA services in certain states. There can be no assurance that additional utilization review or TPA licenses will not be required or, if required, that CompCare will qualify to obtain such licenses. In many states, entities that assume risk under contract with licensed insurance companies or health plans have not been considered by state regulators to be conducting an insurance or HMO business. As a result, we have not sought licensure as either an insurer or HMO in any state. If the regulatory positions of these states were to change, our business could be materially affected until such time as we are able to meet the regulatory requirements, if at all. Additionally, some states may determine to contract directly with companies such as ours for managed behavioral healthcare services in which case they may also require us to maintain financial reserves or net worth requirements that we may not be able to meet. Currently, we cannot quantify the potential effects of additional regulation of the managed care industry, but such costs will have an 10 Table of Contents COMPREHENSIVE CARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES adverse effect on future operations to the extent that they are not able to be recouped in future managed care contracts. CompCare is subject to the requirements of HIPAA. The purpose of the HIPAA is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system through standardization of the electronic data interchange of certain administrative and financial transactions and to protect the security and privacy of protected health information. While we expect to meet all compliance rules and timetables with respect to the HIPAA regulations, failure to do so may result in penalties and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain its customers or to gain new business. We have noted an annual seasonality in the usage of our provider network. Our financial results may suffer to the extent we cannot adequately manage periods of increased utilization. Historically we have generally experienced increased utilization during our fourth fiscal quarter, which comprises the months of March, April and May. Such a variation in utilization impacts our costs of care during these months, generally having a negative impact on our gross margins and operating profits during the fourth quarter. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge and experience could negatively impact our operations. Currently, our Series A Preferred Shareholder is able to exercise decisive influence over our major corporate decisions. Woodcliff, as a result of its purchase of 14,400 shares of our Series A Shares, $50.00 par value, beneficially owned capital stock representing approximately 41.8% of the Company’s voting power as of May 31, 2006 and has the right to designate a majority of the members of our Board of Directors (see “Changes in Capitalization” in Part I, Item 1 “Business”). As a result, holders of our common stock are subject to the following risks, among others: • Woodcliff can exercise decisive influence over the election of directors; • Woodcliff can exercise decisive influence over major decisions involving the Company and its assets; and • Woodcliff may have interests that differ from those of the Company’s other stockholders. The holders of our Series A Shares have significant rights and preferences over the holders of the common stock. The holders of our Series A Shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared by our Board of Directors. The payment of these dividends will take priority over any payment of dividends on our common stock. The holders of our Series A Shares will have a claim against our assets senior to the claim of the holders of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. The aggregate amount of that senior claim is approximately $3.6 million as of May 31, 2006 and will increase thereafter if such preferred stock accrues dividends and if we issue additional shares of such preferred stock to Woodcliff pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement for the Series A Shares. The holders of our Series A Shares have other rights and preferences, including the following: • to convert their preferred stock into an increased number of shares of common stock as a result of antidilution adjustments; • to vote together with the holders of the common stock on an “as-converted” basis on all matters; • to designate representatives to be appointed to our board of directors and, voting together as a single class, to elect up to five directors; and • to prevent the creation and issuance of capital stock with rights equal to or superior to those of the Series A Shares. 11 Table of Contents COMPREHENSIVE CARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES We may be unable to sell the eye care memberships in which case our financial results will suffer to the extent we have revenue from such memberships that is less than the cost we paid to acquire them. We are actively marketing the eye care memberships we acquired in November 2004, but our efforts have not yet been successful. At May 31, 2006 we reduced the carrying value of these memberships in our financial records by one-half, or $62,500, to reflect the lack of sales. If our marketing plan is not successful with respect to selling these memberships, we may have to write off the remaining value. There can be no assurance the Company will sell a quantity of memberships at prices that will allow us to recover the $125,000 cost. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by our small public capitalization. The size of our public market capitalization is relatively small, and the volume of our shares that are traded is low. These factors could cause significant fluctuation in the trading of our stock, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments that are difficult to predict accurately and are subject to many factors that can materially affect results. Budgeting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our budgets which may in turn affect the Company’s results. In light of the factors that can materially affect the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 