Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward looking statements are subject to various uncertainties. Statements made in this Report regarding the payment of additional liquidating distributions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the expectations reflected in those statements will be realized or achieved. Such risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, possible contingent liabilities and post-closing indemnification and other obligations arising from the sale of the Company’s businesses; and risks associated with the liquidation and dissolution of the Company, including, without limitation, settlement of the Company’s liabilities and obligations, costs incurred in connection with the carrying out of the plan of liquidation and dissolution, the amount of income earned on the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments during the liquidation period, and the actual timing of liquidating distributions. The Company has indemnification obligations under the Commercial Services Asset Purchase Agreement. Under the Commercial Services Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to indemnify TEKsystems and its affiliates for, among other things, any losses incurred by them arising out of the Company’s breach of the Commercial Services Asset Purchase Agreement, subject to certain dollar and time limitations. The Company’s Board of Directors will need to make provision for the satisfaction of all of the Company’s known and unknown liabilities, which could substantially delay or limit the Company’s ability to make distribution in full to shareholders. The Company’s Board of Directors will be required to make adequate provision to satisfy the Company’s liabilities, including known and unknown claims against the Company, before authorizing any further distribution to shareholders. The process of accounting for the Company’s liabilities, including those that are presently unknown, may involve difficult valuation decisions, which could adversely impact the Company’s ability to make distribution in full in a timely manner. Substantial time may be required for the Company to determine the extent of its liabilities to known third party creditors and claimants and for the Company to settle or judicially resolve any claims that are contested. Furthermore, pursuant to the New York Business Corporation Law, the Company may be subject to claims being commenced against it for liabilities unknown to it for a period of time after dissolution. Assuming the Company has sufficient remaining cash, a period of time must elapse after dissolution before the Company would be able to make any distribution in full to shareholders of its assets remaining after satisfying or providing for all its liabilities and obligations, and such distribution may likely be made in more than one installment over an extended period of time. If a court holds at any time that the Company has failed to make adequate provision for its expenses and liabilities or if the amount ultimately required to be paid in respect of such liabilities exceeds the amount available from the contingency reserve, the Company’s creditors could seek an injunction against the making of distributions on the grounds that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the payment of the Company’s expenses and liabilities. Any such action could delay or substantially diminish the amount of any cash distributions to shareholders. If the Company fails to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of its expenses and liabilities, creditors could assert claims against each shareholder receiving a distribution for the payment of any shortfall, up to the amounts previously received by the shareholder in distributions from the Company. On March 13, 2007, the Company announced that it had notified The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) of its intention to voluntarily withdraw its common stock from listing on NASDAQ effective immediately prior to the opening of trading on April 2, 2007, with the effect that the last day of trading on NASDAQ would be March 30, 2007. Because the Company’s common stock no longer trades on NASDAQ, the ability of stockholders to buy and sell shares may be materially impaired. The Company’s common stock is now traded in the Pink Sheets. 2 