Risk Factors Certain risk factors exist that can have a significant impact on Selective’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The impact of these risk factors could also impact certain actions that Selective takes as part of its long-term capital strategy including, but not limited to, contributing capital to subsidiaries in its Insurance Operations and Diversified Insurance Services segments, issuing additional debt and/or equity securities, repurchasing shares of common stock (“Common Stock”), or increasing stockholders’ dividends. The following list of risk factors is not exhaustive and others may exist. Selective operates in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Consequently, Selective can neither predict such new risk factors nor assess the impact, if any, they might have on its business in the future. Selective’s reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses and expenses. Selective is required to maintain loss reserves for its estimated liability for losses and loss expenses associated with reported and unreported insurance claims for each accounting period. From time to time, Selective adjusts reserves and, if the reserves are inadequate, must increase its reserves. An increase in reserves: (i) reduces net income and stockholders’ equity for the period in which the deficiency in reserves is identified, and (ii) could have a material adverse effect on Selective’s results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and financial strength, and debt ratings. Selective’s estimates of reserve amounts are based on facts and circumstances of which it is aware, including its expectations of the ultimate settlement and claim administration expenses, predictions of future events, trends in claims severity and frequency, and other subjective factors. There is no method for precisely estimating the ultimate liability for settlement of claims. Selective regularly reviews its reserving techniques and its overall amount of reserves. For more information regarding reserves, see the section entitled “Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. The Company also reviews: • Information regarding each claim for losses, including potential extra-contractual liability, or amounts paid in excess of the policy limits, which may not be covered by the Company’s reinsurance contracts; • The Company’s loss history and the industry’s loss history; • Legislative enactments, judicial decisions and legal developments regarding damages; • Changes in political attitudes; and • Trends in general economic conditions, including inflation. Selective cannot be certain that the reserves it establishes are adequate or will be adequate in the future. Selective is subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on Selective’s business results. Selective relies on complex financial models which have been developed internally and by third parties to analyze historical loss costs and pricing, trends in claim severity and frequency, the occurrence of catastrophe losses, and investment performance. Flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions used by these financial models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. Examples of these various models are Risk Management Solutions, the ALGO risk tool, and predictive modeling. Catastrophic events. Results of property and casualty insurers are subject to weather and other conditions. While one year may be relatively free of major weather occurrences or other disasters, another year may have numerous such events, causing results to be materially worse than other years. Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries have experienced catastrophe losses and the Company expects them to experience such losses in the future. Various natural and man-made events can cause catastrophes, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, terrorism, explosions, severe winter weather, and fires, some of which may be related to climate changes. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is determined by the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines, most of the catastrophe-related claims of Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries historically have been related to commercial property and homeowners coverages. Selective’s property and casualty insurance business is concentrated geographically in the Eastern and Midwestern regions of the United States. New Jersey accounts for 30% of the Company’s total net premiums written. Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance, however, may prove inadequate if: • The modeling software used to analyze the Insurance Subsidiaries’ risk proves inadequate; • A major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit or the reinsurers’ financial capacity; or • The frequency of catastrophe losses result in the Insurance Subsidiaries exceeding their one reinstatement. 23 Table of Contents The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical. Historically, the results of the property and casualty insurance industry have experienced significant fluctuations due to economic conditions, interest rates, and other factors, such as, competition. For example, the competitors pricing business below technical levels could force the Company to reduce its profit margin in order to protect its best business. Selective has experienced the following fluctuations in Commercial Lines premium pricing, excluding exposure (“pure price”), over the past several years: • During 2007, pure price on Commercial Lines renewal business decreased 3.9%; • During 2006, pure price on Commercial Lines renewal business decreased 1.7%; • During 2005, pure price on Commercial Lines renewal business remained flat compared to 2004; • From 2001 — 2004, pure price on Commercial Lines renewal business was increasing in a range from 4.3% to 12.6%; and • For several years prior to 2001, Selective experienced decreases in pure price in our Commercial Lines operations. As an example of pricing and loss trends on the combined ratio, taking a pure price decline of 1.4% and removing the expense that directly varies with premium volume yields an adverse combined ratio impact of approximately 1 point, in addition to a claims inflation increase of 3%, will cause the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio to increase approximately 2 points, all else remaining equal. The combination of claims inflation and price decreases could raise the combined ratio approximately 3 points in this example, absent any initiatives targeted to address these trends. The industry’s profitability also is affected by unpredictable developments, including: • Natural and man-made disasters; • Fluctuations in interest rates and other changes in the investment environment that affect investment returns; • Inflationary pressures (medical and economic) that affect the size of losses; • Judicial, regulatory, legislative, and legal decisions that affect insurers’ liabilities; • Changes in the frequency and severity of losses; • Pricing and availability of reinsurance in the marketplace; and • Weather-related impacts due to the effects of climate changes. Selective competes with regional and national property and casualty insurance companies, including public and mutual companies, some of which do not use independent agents and write directly with insureds. Many of these competitors are larger than Selective and have greater financial and operating resources, as well as greater information scale. The Internet has also emerged as a significant place of new competition, both from existing competitors and from new competitors. A new form of competition may enter the marketplace as reinsurers may attempt to diversify their insurance risk by writing business in the primary marketplace. Because Selective sells its coverages through independent insurance agents who also are agents of its competitors, the Company faces competition within each of its appointed independent insurance agencies. Selective also faces competition, primarily in the commercial insurance market, from entities that self-insure their own risks. Many of Selective’s customers and potential customers are examining the benefits and risks of self-insuring as an alternative to traditional insurance. New competition from these developments could cause the supply or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect Selective’s results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions can adversely affect Selective’s business results and prospects. Changes in general economic conditions can impact Selective’s business. For example, Selective’s contractor business represents 45% of its insurance operations segment and is significantly impacted by changes in general economic conditions, including the downturn in the U.S. housing market. Other economic conditions impacting Selective’s business include, but, are not limited to, recessions; increases in corporate, municipal and/or consumer bankruptcies; changes in interest rate levels; a continued downturn in the U.S. housing market; changes in domestic and international laws, including tax laws and bankruptcy laws; intervention by governments in financial markets, including the imposition of limits on the ability of mortgagees to foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans; wars; and terrorist acts could adversely affect the performance of the Company’s insured and investment portfolios, possibly leading to increases in losses and loss reserves in the insured portfolio and decreases in the value of the investment portfolio and, therefore, the Company’s financial strength. 24 Table of Contents Acts of terrorism not covered by, or exceeding, reinsurance limits. On November 26, 2002, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 legislation was signed into law. This legislation was amended in December 2005 and extended through December 31, 2007 through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (collectively, these two acts will be referred to as “TRIA”). On December 18, 2007, TRIA was extended for seven more years until December 31, 2014. This revised legislation ends the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism without increasing the level of damages necessary to trigger the program ($100 million). This seven year period will provide the market with much-needed stability. TRIA requires sharing the risk of future losses from terrorism between private insurers and the federal government, and is applicable to almost all commercial lines of insurance. Insurance companies with direct commercial insurance exposure in the United States are required to participate in this program. TRIA rescinded all previously approved exclusions for terrorism. Policyholders for non-workers compensation policies have the option to accept or decline the terrorism coverage Selective offers in its policies, or negotiate other terms. In 2007, approximately 90% of Selective’s commercial non-workers compensation policyholders purchased terrorism coverage. The terrorism coverage is mandatory for all workers compensation primary policies. In addition, 48%, or ten of the twenty-one primary states in which Selective writes commercial property coverage mandate the coverage of fire following an act of terrorism. These provisions apply to new policies written after enactment of TRIA. A terrorism act must be certified by the Secretary of Treasury in order to be covered by TRIA. Each participating insurance company will be responsible for paying out a certain amount in claims (a deductible) before federal assistance becomes available. This deductible, which is equal to approximately $200 million in 2008, is based on a percentage of commercial lines direct earned premiums for lines subject to TRIA from the prior calendar year. For losses above an insurer’s deductible, the federal government will cover 85%, while the insurer contributes 15%. Although the provisions of TRIA will serve to mitigate Selective’s exposure in the event of a large-scale terrorist attack, the Company’s deductible is substantial. Selective’s investments support its operations and provide a significant portion of its revenues and earnings. Like many other property and casualty insurance companies, Selective depends on income from its investment portfolio for a significant portion of its revenues and earnings. Any significant decline in the Company’s investment income as a result of falling interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates, reduced returns in the Company’s other investment portfolio, primarily from alternative investments, or general market conditions would have an adverse effect on its results. Fluctuations in interest rates cause inverse fluctuations in the market value of the Company’s debt portfolio. In addition, issuers of debt which the Company holds in its investment portfolio may default in its financial obligations as a result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Any significant decline in the market value of its investments, excluding its held-to-maturity investments, would reduce the Company’s stockholders’ equity. A significant decline in the market value of its equity and other investments would also reduce its policyholders’ surplus, which could impact the Company’s ability to write additional premiums. In addition, Selective’s notes payable are subject to certain debt-to-capitalization restrictions, which could also be impacted by a significant decline in investment values. For more information see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations could adversely impact Selective’s business. Tax legislation which imposes a “flat tax” or otherwise changes the tax preference of municipal obligations under current law could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. Forty-one percent of the Company’s investment portfolio is invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations; as such, the value of the investment portfolio could be adversely affected by any such legislation. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. Selective may be adversely impacted by a change in its ratings. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings produced by external rating agencies, based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, hold, or sell any of Selective’s securities. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a strong ability to pay claims. A significant downgrade in ratings, from A.M. Best in particular, could: (i) affect Selective’s ability to write new business with customers, some of whom are required (under various third party agreements) to maintain insurance with a carrier that maintains a specified minimum rating; (ii) be an event of default under Selective’s line of credit; or (iii) make it more expensive for Selective to access capital markets. Selective is a holding company, and its subsidiaries may have a limited ability to declare dividends, and thus may not have access to the cash that is needed to meet its cash needs. Substantially all of Selective’s operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Restrictions on the ability of the Company’s subsidiaries, particularly the Insurance Subsidiaries, to pay dividends or make other cash payments to the Parent may materially affect its ability to pay principal and interest on its indebtedness and dividends on its Common Stock. 25 Table of Contents Under the terms of Selective’s debt agreements and financial solvency laws affecting insurers, the Company’s subsidiaries are permitted to incur indebtedness up to certain levels that may restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends, or the making of loans by the subsidiaries to the Parent. The Company cannot assure that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of its subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide the Parent with sufficient dividends, distributions, or loans to fund its cash needs. Sources of funds for the Insurance Subsidiaries primarily consist of premiums, investment income, and proceeds from sales and redemption of investments. Such funds are applied primarily to payment of claims, insurance operating expenses, income taxes and the purchase of investments, as well as dividends and other payments. The Insurance Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends to the Parent only if they are permitted to do so under the insurance regulations of their respective state of domicile. All of the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries are domiciled regulate the payment of dividends. Some states, including New Jersey, North Carolina, and South Carolina, require that Selective give notice to the relevant state insurance commissioner prior to its Insurance Subsidiary domiciled in that respective state declaring any dividends and distributions payable to the Parent. During the notice period, the state insurance commissioner may disallow all or part of the proposed dividend upon determination that: (i) the insurer’s surplus is not reasonable in relation to its liabilities and adequate to its financial needs and those of the policyholders, or (ii) in the case of New Jersey, the insurer is otherwise in a hazardous financial condition. In addition, insurance regulators may block dividends or other payments to affiliates that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval upon determination that, because of the financial condition of the insurance subsidiary or otherwise, payment of a dividend or any other payment to an affiliate would be detrimental to an insurance subsidiary’s policyholders or creditors. Selective’s Selective HR subsidiary may also declare and pay dividends, which are restricted by the operating needs of this entity as well as a professional employer organization licensing requirements to maintain a current ratio of at least 1:1. Selective depends on independent insurance agents and other third party service providers. Selective markets and sells its insurance products through independent, non-exclusive insurance agencies and brokers. Agents and brokers are not obligated to promote Selective’s insurance products, and they may also sell the insurance products of the Company’s competitors. As a result, Selective’s business depends in part on the marketing and sales efforts of these agencies and brokers. As Selective diversifies and expands its business geographically, it may need to expand its network of agencies and brokers to successfully market its products. If these agencies and brokers fail to market Selective’s products successfully, its business may be adversely impacted. Also, independent agents may decide to sell their businesses to banks, other insurance agencies, or other businesses. Agents with a Selective appointment may decide to buy other agents. Changes in ownership of agencies or expansion of agencies through acquisition could adversely affect an agency’s ability to control growth and profitability, thereby adversely affecting Selective’s business. In addition to independent insurance agents, Selective also relies on third party service providers to conduct a portion of its premium audits, safety management services, and claims adjusting services. Selective’s HR Outsourcing business relies on third party service providers for products such as health coverage, flexible spending accounts, and 401(k) savings plans. If these third-party service providers fail to perform their respective services and/or fail to provide their products successfully and/or accurately, Selective’s business may be adversely impacted. Selective is heavily regulated in the states in which it operates. Selective is subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries transact insurance business. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect individual policyholders and not shareholders or other investors. Selective’s business can be adversely affected by regulations affecting property and casualty insurance companies. For example, laws and regulations can lead to mandated reductions in rates to levels that Selective does not believe are adequate for the risks it insures. Other laws and regulations limit the Company’s ability to cancel or refuse to renew certain policies and require Selective to offer coverage to all consumers. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretations, pertaining to insurance may also have an impact on Selective’s business. Selective’s concentration of business may expose the Company to increased risks of regulatory matters in the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries write insurance that could be greater than the risks the Company could be exposed to by transacting business in a greater number of geographic markets. 26 Table of Contents Although the insurance industry is primarily regulated by individual states, federal initiatives, such as, the National Flood Insurance Program, the optional federal charter, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, can also impact the insurance industry. Proposals intended to control the cost and availability of healthcare services have been debated in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. Although Selective neither writes health insurance nor assumes any healthcare risk, rules affecting healthcare services can affect workers compensation, commercial and personal automobile, liability, and other insurance that it does write. Selective cannot determine whether, or in what form, healthcare reform legislation may be adopted by the U.S. Congress or any state legislature. Selective also cannot determine the nature and effect, if any, that the adoption of healthcare legislation or regulations, or changing interpretations, at the federal or state level would have on it. Examples of insurance regulatory risks include: Automobile Insurance Regulation In 1998, New Jersey instituted an Urban Enterprise Zone (“UEZ”) Program, which requires New Jersey auto insurers to have a market share in certain urban territories that is in proportion to their statewide market share. Due to mandated urban rate caps, the premiums on these UEZ policies are typically insufficient to cover losses. Although the law that imposed these urban rate caps was repealed in 1998, the caps continue to be enforced by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“NJDOBI”). From time to time, legislative proposals are passed and judicial decisions are rendered related to automobile insurance regulation that could adversely affect Selective’s results of operations. For example, in 2005 a New Jersey Supreme Court decision eliminated the application of the serious life impact standard to personal automobile bodily injury liability cases under the verbal tort threshold of New Jersey’s Automobile Insurance Cost Reduction Act (“AICRA”). This decision allows claimants to file lawsuits for non-economic damages without proving that the injuries sustained had a serious impact on their lives. Workers Compensation Insurance Regulation Because Selective voluntarily writes workers compensation insurance, it is required by state law to support the involuntary market. Insurance companies that underwrite voluntary workers compensation insurance can either directly write involuntary coverage, which is assigned by state regulatory authorities, or participate in a sharing arrangement, where the business is written by a servicing carrier and the profits or losses of that serviced business are shared among the participating insurers. Selective currently participates through a sharing arrangement in all states, except New Jersey, where it currently writes involuntary coverage directly. Historically, workers compensation business has been unprofitable whether written directly or handled through a sharing arrangement. Additionally, Selective is required to provide workers compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism under its workers compensation policies. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on Selective will depend upon the nature, extent, location, and timing of such an act. Any such impact on Selective could be material. Homeowners Insurance Regulation Selective is subject to regulatory provisions that are designed to address potential availability and/or affordability problems in the homeowners property insurance marketplace. Involuntary market mechanisms, such as the New Jersey Insurance Underwriting Association (“New Jersey FAIR Plan”), generally result in assessments against the Insurance Subsidiaries. The New Jersey FAIR Plan writes fire and extended coverage on homeowners for those individuals unable to secure insurance elsewhere. Insurance companies who voluntarily write homeowners insurance in New Jersey are assessed a portion of any deficit from the New Jersey FAIR Plan based on their share of the voluntary market. Similar involuntary plans exist in most other states where Selective operates. 27 Table of Contents Certain coastal states have instituted, or are considering adopting, legislation or regulation to maintain or increase the availability of property insurance, particularly homeowners insurance, in those states. For example, in 2002 Florida combined its two high-risk insurance pools, the Windstorm and Joint Underwriting Association, to create Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (“CPIC”). CPIC is a state-regulated association and historically has provided property insurance to policyholders unable to obtain coverage in the private insurance market. However, CPIC has evolved from market of last resort to become the state’s largest property insurer. In May 2007, a new insurance law passed in Florida expanding the role of CPIC and making its rates more competitive with the private market. Florida homeowners can now purchase coverage from CPIC if the rates for a policy from a private insurer are more than 15% higher than from a similar CPIC policy. CPIC can now also offer high-risk policyholders homeowners insurance as well as wind-only coverage in other parts of the state, which is driving homeowners rates down in the private market. In addition, effective January 1, 2008, an insurer writing homeowners insurance in another state, but not in Florida, may not continue to write private passenger automobile insurance in Florida unless such insurer is affiliated with an insurer writing homeowners insurance in Florida. At this time, none of Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries write private passenger automobile insurance in Florida. Certain other coastal states, including certain states in which Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries transact homeowners insurance business, are considering legislation requiring that insurers that write homeowners insurance in any geographic area of a state must write homeowners insurance in all geographic areas of that state. Selective cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulation will be enacted, and the ultimate impact on Selective will depend upon the specifics of the legislation or regulation and the state or states that adopt any such legislation or regulation. Credit Scoring Regulation Selective uses certain aspects of credit scores when evaluating individual risks. In June 2007 the United States Supreme Court interpreted the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”) concerning the meaning of the term “adverse action” as it relates to an insurance carrier’s use of credit scoring when it quotes premium for a personal lines applicant or raises premium for an existing personal lines insured. This interpretation requires insurance carriers to notify policyholders and applicants when their credit reports are the basis for adverse action, such as a rate increase. An adverse action notification, according to the interpretation, would be required if a quoted rate is higher than it would have been in a credit neutral comparison, which compares the credit score-based rate against a credit score neutral rate. The interpretation does not require an insurance carrier to inform all policyholders that their credit reports have been reviewed in the underwriting process or that the rate they have received is higher than the best possible rate of the carrier. In 2007, 31 states introduced 83 bills seeking to limit or completely restrict the use of credit scores on individuals. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission produced a report in late 2007 stating the use of credit scores is an accurate predictor of risk and is not prejudicial to minority groups. Congress is expected to continue investigating this issue and many state legislatures and agencies will continue to monitor the impact credit scoring has on the insurance marketplace. Changes to regulation regarding the use of credit scores may impact the way in which the Company prices business and/or notifies policyholders or applicants of adverse actions resulting from the use of these score. Flood Insurance Regulation The federal government’s NFIP program currently covers flooding caused by storm surge where water is pushed toward the shore by the force of the winds swirling around a storm. If this federal program is modified in an unfavorable manner, whereby flooding related to storm surge is no longer covered or is required to be covered by homeowners policies, such modification could have a material adverse effect on Selective’s Flood and/or Homeowners results. Legislation exists that may force policies to cover claims related to windstorm damage and could lower the fee paid by the NFIP to the servicing carrier. The current repayment of claims by the NFIP could also be restricted, with the current authorization expected to last only to 2009. Regulation and Legislation of Agent Compensation Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries sell insurance products and services primarily through appointed independent insurance agents. Accordingly, Selective seeks to compensate its agents consistent with market practices and pay commissions and other consideration for business agents place with Selective’s Insurance Subsidiaries. Selective discloses its compensation practices in notices to all policyholders and on Selective’s public website, while referring all specific questions about agent compensation to the agent that placed the business with Selective. 28 Table of Contents Because Selective’s agents also generally represent several of Selective’s competitors, Selective’s primary marketing strategy is to: • Develop close relationships with each agent by: (i) soliciting their feedback on products and services, (ii) advising them concerning company developments, and (iii) investing significant time with them professionally and socially; and, • Develop with each agent, and then carefully monitor, annual goals regarding: (i) types and mix of risks placed with Selective, (ii) amounts of premium or numbers of policies placed with Selective, (iii) customer service levels, and (iv) profitability of business placed with Selective. At present, Selective believes its agent compensation practices and disclosures meet current legal and regulatory requirements. Over the last two years, however, certain state attorneys general have investigated, and continue to investigate, various alleged anticompetitive practices engaged in by several insurance brokers and national insurance companies that compete with Selective. Some of these investigations, mainly related to insureds that are much larger than Selective’s target customers, have resulted in consent orders under which brokers and several of Selective’s competitors have left uncontested the attorneys general’s allegations that some of their compensation arrangements may have caused certain brokers to clandestinely “steer” clients to specific insurers without sufficient disclosure to the client. The consent orders also have, to one degree or another, banned the use of such compensation arrangements by the offending brokers and insurers in several, but not all, lines of business. Given the regulatory scrutiny of compensation arrangements with brokers to date, it is possible that compensation arrangements between insurers and independent agents will come under further review and will be the subject of public policy debate and possible legislative reform. Selective monitors these developments but cannot determine the nature or effect, if any, that such a public policy debate or possible legislative reform will have on its agent compensation practices or business. Reinsurance Regulation Florida, a state in which Selective does not write homeowners insurance, recently passed legislation (i) changing the funding and operation of the Florida state-sponsored insurer of last resort, Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), which is the Florida state-sponsored reinsurance facility, and (ii) prohibiting residential property insurers from including in rate calculations the additional costs of private reinsurance or loss exposure that duplicates FHCF coverage. In the short-term, such legislative action may increase overall private property reinsurance availability and reduce its costs outside of Florida. Should other states in which Selective writes business enact similar legislation, it is possible that Selective may not be able to include the costs of reinsurance that it deems appropriate in its rates. In such an event, Selective may be forced, if permitted under applicable law, to exit certain markets. If not permitted to exit such markets, Selective may face unfair competitive situations, where state-sponsored insurers implement rate freezes or decreases. Selective’s ability to reduce its exposure to risks depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance. Selective transfers its risk exposure to other insurance and reinsurance companies through reinsurance arrangements. Through these arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of the Company’s losses and loss adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of the insurance policy premiums. The availability, amount, and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions, which may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of Selective’s reinsurance will increase its risk of loss. Selective also faces credit risk with respect to reinsurance. In addition, reinsurers which the Company has contracted with may default in their financial obligations as a result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. The inability of any of the Company’s reinsurers to meet their financial obligations could materially and adversely affect Selective’s operations, as the Company remains primarily liable to its customers under the policies that it has reinsured. Class action litigation could affect Selective’s business practices and financial results. Selective’s industries have been the target of class action litigation in areas including the following: • After-market crash parts; • Urban homeowner underwriting practices; • Credit scoring and predictive modeling pricing; • Investment disclosure; • Health maintenance organization practices; • Discounting and payment of personal injury protection claims; and • Shareholder class action suits. 29 Table of Contents A change in Selective’s market share in New Jersey could adversely impact the results of its private passenger automobile business. New Jersey insurance regulations require New Jersey auto insurers to involuntarily write private passenger automobile insurance for individuals who are unable to obtain insurance in the voluntary market. These policies are priced according to a separate rating scheme that is established by the assigned risk plan and subject to approval by NJDOBI. The amount of involuntary insurance an insurer must write in New Jersey depends on the insurer’s statewide market share — the greater the market share, the more involuntary coverage the insurer is required to write. The underwriting of involuntary personal automobile insurance in New Jersey has been historically unprofitable. In addition to the assigned risk plan in New Jersey, there are ongoing attempts to address rate disparities between different geographic regions in the state, as well as judicial attempts to address limitations of lawsuits. Selective depends on key personnel. To a large extent, the success of Selective’s businesses is dependent on its ability to attract and retain key employees, in particular its senior officers, key management, sales, information systems, underwriting, claims, HR Outsourcing, and corporate personnel. Competition to attract and retain key personnel is intense. While Selective has employment agreements with a number of key managers, the Company generally does not have employment contracts with its employees and cannot ensure that it will be able to attract and retain key personnel. In addition, Selective’s workforce is older, with an average age of 47. Approximately 25% of Selective’s workforce is retirement eligible under Selective’s retirement and benefit plans. Selective faces risks from technology-related failures. Selective’s businesses are increasingly dependent on computer and Internet-enabled technology. The Company’s inability to anticipate or manage problems with technology associated with scalability, security, functionality, or reliability could adversely affect its ability to write business and service accounts, and could adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition. Selective faces risks as a servicing carrier in the “Write-Your-Own” (“WYO”) Program of the United States government’s National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). Flood insurance is offered through the NFIP, which is managed by the Mitigation Division of FEMA under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. In 2005, the destruction caused by the active hurricane season stressed the NFIP with flood losses currently estimated by FEMA to be in excess of $20 billion. Selective continues to monitor developments with the NFIP regarding its ability to pay claims in the event of another large-scale disaster. Congress controls the federal agency’s funding authority and future limitations in this funding could occur. Effective October 1, 2006, the fee paid to Selective by the NFIP decreased 0.6 points to 30.2% of premiums written. This fee structure is still in place as of December 31, 2007. However, during 2008, the NFIP is expected to further decrease the fee 0.5 points to 29.7%. Further reductions in this rate could occur through legislative activity. The current program is also being reevaluated to include a cap on claim fees paid by the NFIP. While the final outcome of this legislation is unknown, this cap could impact the ultimate claim fee the Company could receive in the event that there is a large catastrophe in an area in which Selective is geographically concentrated. Selective faces risks in the HR Outsourcing business. Selective HR’s operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment matters, benefits plans, and taxes. In performing services for its clients, Selective HR assumes some obligations of an employer under these laws and regulations. Regulation in the HR Outsourcing business is constantly evolving, which could result in the modification of laws and regulations from time to time. Selective cannot predict what additional government initiatives, if any, affecting Selective HR’s business may be promulgated in the future. Consequently, the Company also cannot predict whether Selective HR will be able to adapt to new or modified regulatory requirements or obtain necessary licenses and government approvals. Selective is subject to the compliance requirements of the federal securities laws. Selective is subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws as a registrant under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the event Selective was unable to comply with the federal securities laws, the Company would likely be unable to access the public capital markets, which would make it more difficult to raise necessary capital and/or increase the cost of capital. If Selective cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, the business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Selective employs anti-takeover measures that may discourage potential acquirers and could adversely affect the value of its Common Stock. Selective owns all of the shares of stock of its Insurance Subsidiaries domiciled in the states of New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Maine. State insurance laws require prior approval by state insurance departments of any acquisition or control of a domestic insurance company or of any company that controls a domestic insurance company. Any purchase of 10% or more of Selective’s outstanding Common Stock would require prior action by all or some of the insurance commissioners of these states. Other factors also may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of Selective, including, among others, provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation (as amended), relating to: • Supermajority voting and fair price to Selective’s business combinations; • Staggered terms for Selective’s directors; • Supermajority voting requirements to amend the foregoing provisions; • Selective’s stockholders’ rights plan; and • The ability of Selective’s board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act provides that Selective, as a New Jersey corporation, may not engage in business combinations specified in the statute with a shareholder having indirect or direct beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting power of Selective’s outstanding stock (an interested shareholder) for a period of five years following the date on which the shareholder became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder. In addition, Selective may not engage at any time in any business combination with any interested shareholder other than: (i) a business combination approved by Selective’s board of directors prior to the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; (ii) a business combination approved by two-thirds of Selective’s shareholders (other than the interested shareholder); or (iii) a business combination that satisfies certain price criteria. These provisions also could have the effect of depriving Selective stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price if a hostile takeover were attempted and may adversely affect the value of Selective’s Common Stock. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 