1A. Risk Factors Certain risk factors exist that can have a significant impact on our business, liquidity, capital resources, results of operations, and financial condition. The impact of these risk factors could also impact certain actions that we take as part of our long-term capital strategy including, but not limited to, contributing capital to subsidiaries in our Insurance Operations and Diversified Insurance Services segments, issuing additional debt and/or equity securities, repurchasing shares of the Parent’s common stock, or changing stockholders’ dividends. The following list of risk factors is not exhaustive and others may exist. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Consequently, we can neither predict such new risk factors nor assess the impact, if any, they might have on our business in the future. Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy may adversely affect our revenue and profitability and harm our business, and these conditions may not improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, in both the U.S. and abroad. As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe, and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption from the second half of 2007 through 2008. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S., increased unemployment, volatile energy and commodity prices and geopolitical issues, among other factors, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial and insurance markets going forward. These concerns have also led to declines in business and consumer confidence, which have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a sustained recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility, which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions and increased the risk that issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities will default on principal and interest payments. Initially, the effects were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, this volatility has since spread, negatively impacting: (i) a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade; (ii) the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally; and (iii) a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income securities has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to sell. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) exposed to the mortgage securities and credit markets particularly affected. These factors and the continuing market disruption may have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio, revenues, and profit margins. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending, the demand for insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we are impacted by the recent decrease in commercial and new home construction and home ownership in 2008 because 43% of NPW in our Commercial Lines business was generated through contractors business. Further unfavorable economic developments could adversely affect our earnings if our customers have less need for insurance coverage, cancel existing insurance policies, modify coverage or choose not to renew with us. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, which may have an adverse effect on us. 24 Table of Contents We are also subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments due under the terms of the securities. At December 31, 2008, our fixed maturity securities portfolio represented approximately 86% of our total invested assets. Approximately 66% of our fixed maturity securities are state, municipality, or U.S. Government obligations. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the current economy), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, budgetary deficits, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of our fixed maturity securities portfolio to increase. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected and a ratings downgrade of the issuers or guarantors of the securities in our portfolio could also cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decrease. For example, rating agency downgrades of monoline insurance companies during 2008 contributed to a decline in the carrying value and the market liquidity of our municipal bond investment portfolio. A reduction in the value of our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write down are impacted by our assessment of the impairment, including a review of the underlying collateral of structured securities, and our intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value until recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio where we determine not to hold certain securities in an unrealized loss position to recovery, then we will incur an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge. The current economic crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions, in addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which could further impact our business. We discuss government actions further in this section. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our loss reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses and expenses. We are required to maintain loss reserves for our estimated liability for losses and loss expenses associated with reported and unreported insurance claims for each accounting period. From time to time, we adjust reserves and, if the reserves are inadequate, must increase our reserves. An increase in reserves: (i) reduces net income and stockholders’ equity for the period in which the deficiency in reserves is identified; and (ii) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and financial strength and debt ratings. Our estimates of reserve amounts are based on facts and circumstances of which we are aware, including our expectations of the ultimate settlement and claim administration expenses, predictions of future events, trends in claims severity and frequency, and other subjective factors relating to our insurance policies in force. There is no method for precisely estimating the ultimate liability for settlement of claims. We regularly review our reserving techniques and our overall amount of reserves. We also review: • Information regarding each claim for losses, including potential extra-contractual liabilities, or amounts paid in excess of the policy limits, which may not be covered by our contracts with reinsurers; • Our loss history and the industry’s loss history; • Legislative enactments, judicial decisions and legal developments regarding damages; • Changes in political attitudes; and • Trends in general economic conditions, including inflation. In addition to the above, we continue to manage our claims process in an effort to reduce claim cycle times and improve workflows. The initiatives undertaken in 2008 included: (i) claims automation; (ii) enhancement of claims quality and control; (iii) litigation management; (iv) enhancement of compliance and bill review; (v) enhancement of workers compensation review; and (vi) enhancement of salvage and subrogation review. As these initiatives are anticipated to accelerate the timing of reserve establishment, we ultimately expect lower loss costs to be realized through reduced legal and loss adjustment expenses. This acceleration will inflate our severity statistics in the near term, but we expect the longer-term benefit to be a more efficient management of the claims process. We cannot be certain that the reserves we establish are adequate or will be adequate in the future. For more information regarding reserves, see the section entitled “Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. As a property and casualty insurer we are particularly vulnerable to catastrophic events. Results of property and casualty insurers, such as our company, are subject to weather and other conditions. While one year may be relatively free of major weather occurrences or other disasters, another year may have numerous such events, causing results to be materially worse than other years. The Insurance Subsidiaries have experienced catastrophe losses and we expect them to experience such losses in the future. 25 Table of Contents Various natural and man-made events can cause catastrophes, including, but not limited to; hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, terrorism, explosions, severe winter weather, floods and fires, some of which may be related to climate changes. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is determined by the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines, most of the catastrophe-related claims of the Insurance Subsidiaries historically have been related to commercial property and homeowners coverages. Our property and casualty insurance business is concentrated geographically in the Eastern and Midwestern regions of the U.S. New Jersey accounted for 29% of our total NPW during the year ended December 31, 2008. The Insurance Subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance, however, may prove inadequate if: • The modeling software we use to analyze the Insurance Subsidiaries’ risk results in an inadequate purchase of reinsurance by us; • A major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit or the reinsurers’ financial capacity; or • The frequency of catastrophe losses result in the Insurance Subsidiaries exceeding their one reinstatement. Continued deterioration in the public debt and equity markets, as well as in the private investment marketplace, could lead to investment losses, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Like many other property and casualty insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a significant portion of our revenues and earnings. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks, primarily relating to interest rates, credit spreads, equity price risks, and the changes in market value of our alternative investment portfolio. A decline could occur as a result of, among other things, a decrease in market liquidity, falling interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates, negative market perception of credit risk with respect to types of securities in our portfolio, a decline in the performance of the underlying collateral of our structured securities, reduced returns on our other investments, including our portfolio of alternative investments, or general market conditions. Our notes payable and line of credit are subject to certain debt-to-capitalization restrictions and net worth covenants, which could also be impacted by a significant decline in investment values, and further OTTI charges could be necessary if there is a future significant decline in investment values. Depending on market conditions going forward, and in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, debt and financial strength ratings, and our ability to access capital markets as a result of realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price (and cash flow variability) associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates may decrease the fair value of our existing fixed maturity investments and declines in interest rates may result in an increase in the fair value of our existing fixed maturity investments. Our fixed income investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates resulting from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested and new investments. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested and new investments. We seek to mitigate our interest rate risk associated with holding fixed maturity investments by monitoring and maintaining the average duration of our portfolio with a view toward achieving an adequate after-tax return without subjecting the portfolio to an unreasonable level of interest rate risk. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Equity price risk Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential adverse impact on our equity investments associated with volatility in equity market prices, decreased dividend payment rates, and reduced returns in certain of our other investments, which reduces our investment portfolio. 4%, or $134.7 million, of our total investment portfolio was equity securities and 5%, or $165.0 million, of our total investment portfolio was alternative investments as December 31, 2008. 49%, or $81.0 million, of our alternative investments were private equity investments (including secondary market), which represented 2% of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008. 26 Table of Contents We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based on the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plan. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. The factors discussed above have resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses, including write downs for OTTI charges, in our equity and other investment portfolio. Any further decline in the market value of our equity and other investments would continue to reduce our revenue, stockholders’ equity, and policyholders’ surplus, which could impact our ability to issue additional insurance policies. For more information regarding market, interest rate, credit, and equity price risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical. Historically, the results of the property and casualty insurance industry have experienced significant fluctuations due to competition, occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, interest rates, and other factors. Demand for insurance is influenced significantly by prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance industry. As a result, the insurance industry historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. For example, competitors pricing business below technical levels could force us to reduce our profit margin in order to protect our best business. We have experienced the following fluctuations in Commercial Lines premium pricing, excluding exposure (“pure price”), over the past several years: Year Percentage Increase (Decrease) from Year to Year 2008 (3.1)% 2007 (3.9)% 2006 (1.7)% 2005 0% 2001-2004 Increases ranging from 4.3% to 12.6% As an example of pricing and loss trends on the statutory combined ratio, taking a pure price decline of 1.4% and removing the expense that directly varies with premium volume yields an adverse combined ratio impact of approximately 1 point, in addition to a claims inflation increase of 3%, will cause the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio to increase approximately 2 points, all else remaining equal. The combination of claims inflation and price decreases could raise the combined ratio approximately 3 points in this example, absent any initiatives targeted to address these trends. The industry’s profitability also is affected by unpredictable developments, including: • Natural and man-made disasters; • Fluctuations in interest rates and other changes in the investment environment that affect investment returns; • Inflationary pressures (medical and economic) that affect the size of losses; • Judicial, regulatory, legislative, and legal decisions that affect insurers’ liabilities; • Changes in the frequency and severity of losses; • Pricing and availability of reinsurance in the marketplace; and • Weather-related impacts due to the effects of climate changes. Any of the above developments could cause the supply or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies to try to stabilize the financial markets will achieve their intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President George Bush signed the EESA into law. Under the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions to try to stabilize the financial markets. The EESA or similar legislation, as well as monetary or fiscal actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board or comparable authorities in other countries, may fail to stabilize the financial markets. These new forms of legislation and actions may have other consequences on financial factors, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the markets for the financial instruments purchased and sold by the U.S. Department of Treasury pursuant to the EESA. These other consequences could materially affect our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. The failure to effectively implement this legislation and related actions, or ineffectiveness of the legislation and actions, could result in a crisis of investor confidence in the U.S. economy and financial markets, which could increase constraints on the liquidity available in the banking system and financial markets and increase pressure on the price of our fixed income and equity portfolios. These results could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and the trading price of the Parent’s common stock. In the event of future material deterioration in business conditions, we may need to raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage our capital position and liquidity. However, since we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the marketplace, we may find it difficult to raise capital, and if we do, we may be forced to incur a relatively high cost to obtain such capital. Although we do not plan to participate in any of the EESA programs, it is possible that our competitors may, and those competitors may gain a competitive advantage by accessing funds through the EESA programs. Furthermore, it is possible that some companies, including competitors, may attempt to use the existing market volatility and enhanced market oversight as a platform for isolating poorly performing assets into separate stand-alone entities. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such actions will have on our competitive position. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies. In light of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities have implemented, or may in the future implement, new or enhanced regulatory requirements intended to restore confidence in financial institutions and reduce the likelihood of similar economic events in the future. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. Such events could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements. These developments, if they occurred, could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) approved the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) on November 21, 2008. The program was designed to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts, and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. If we purchase securities guaranteed under the TLGP, and the program does not strengthen confidence or encourage liquidity in the marketplace, the carrying value of such securities in our investment portfolio could be adversely affected. We are subject to the types of risks inherent in making alternative investments in private limited partnerships. Our other investments include alternative investments in private limited partnerships that invest in various strategies such as private equity, mezzanine debt, distressed debt, and real estate. As of December 31, 2008, these types of investments represented 5% of our total invested assets. The amount and timing of income from these partnerships tends to be variable as a result of the performance and investment stage of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from the partnerships, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the partnerships’ schedules for making distributions and their need for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. In addition, the general volatility in the capital markets, the dislocation of the credit markets, and reduced values of financial assets globally in the last half of 2008 has reduced investment income from these types of investments. Pursuant to the various limited partnership agreements of these partnerships, we are committed to potential future capital calls in the aggregate amount of approximately $120 million as of December 31, 2008. 28 Table of Contents We are also subject to the risks arising from the fact that the determination of the fair value of these types of investments is inherently subjective. The general partner of each of these partnerships generally reports the change in the fair value of the interests in the partnership on a one quarter lag because of the nature of the underlying assets or liabilities. Since these partnerships’ underlying investments consist primarily of assets or liabilities for which there are no quoted prices in active markets for the same or similar assets, the valuation of interests in these partnerships are subject to a higher level of subjectivity and unobservable inputs than substantially all of our other investments. Pursuant to FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“FAS 157”), each of these general partners is required to determine fair value by the price obtainable for the sale of the interest at the time of determination. Valuations based on unobservable inputs are subject to greater scrutiny and reconsideration from one reporting period to the next and therefore, the changes in the fair value of these investments may be subject to significant fluctuations which could lead to significant decreases in their fair value from one reporting period to the next. Since we record our investments in these various partnerships under the equity method of accounting, any decreases in the valuation of these investments would negatively impact our results of operations. The valuation of our investments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, represented the majority of our total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2008. As required under accounting rules, we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), the next priority to quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or in markets that are not active and other inputs that can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities (Level 2) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity and that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about the exit price, including assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. We generally use a combination of independent pricing services and broker quotes to price our investment securities. At December 31, 2008, approximately 13% and 87% of these securities represented Level 1 and Level 2, respectively. However, prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker quotes can vary widely even for the same security. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and may result in an increase in non-cash OTTI charges. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is based on our periodic evaluation and assessment of our investments and known and inherent risks associated with the various asset classes. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security, is impaired if its fair value falls below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other than temporary. We regularly review our entire investment portfolio for declines in value. If we believe that a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income for those securities that are held as available for sale. If we believe the decline is other-than-temporary we write down the carrying value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statements of income. Management’s assessment of a decline in value includes current judgment as to the financial position and future prospects of the security issuer as well as our ability and intent to hold such security until a recovery could occur. 29 Table of Contents Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) whether the decline appears to be issuer or industry specific; (ii) the relationship of market prices per share to book value per share at the date of acquisition and date of evaluation; (iii) the price-earnings ratio at the time of acquisition and date of evaluation; (iv) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence the issuer’s operations; (v) the recent income or loss of the issuer; (vi) the independent auditors’ report on the issuer’s recent financial statements; (vii) the dividend policy of the issuer at the date of acquisition and the date of evaluation; (viii) any buy/hold/sell recommendations or price projections published by outside investment advisors; (ix) any rating agency announcements; (x) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than carrying value; and (xi) the stress testing of projected cash flows under various economic and default scenarios. As of December 31, 2008, there were 401 securities in our portfolio in an unrealized loss position, including certain securities that were priced at a significant discount compared to our original cost due to uncertainties in the marketplace. Our gross unrealized losses on available-for-sale fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2008 were $160.2 million, pre-tax, in the aggregate and the component of gross unrealized losses for securities with a fair value of less than 85% of their amortized costs was approximately $122.7 million, pre-tax, at such date. Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial position. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings issued by various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”), based on factors relevant to policyholders. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, hold, or sell any of our securities. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a strong ability to pay claims. We and the Insurance Subsidiaries currently maintain: (i) an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A+” with a stable financial strength outlook; (ii) a S&P’s financial strength rating of “A+” with a negative outlook; (iii) a Fitch financial strength rating of “A+” with a stable outlook; and (iv) a Moody’s financial strength rating of “A2” with a stable outlook. A significant downgrade in ratings, from A.M. Best in particular, could: (i) affect our ability to write new business with customers, some of whom are required (under various third party agreements) to maintain insurance with a carrier that maintains a specified minimum rating; or (ii) be an event of default under our line of credit. Pursuant to our line of credit agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association (“Line of Credit”), the Insurance Subsidiaries must maintain a financial strength rating by A.M. Best of at least “A-” (two levels below our current rating) at all times. A default under our Line of Credit could lead to acceleration of principal, which could trigger default provisions under certain of our other debt instruments and could negatively impact our ability to borrow in the future. As a result, any significant downgrade in ratings could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to financial strength ratings, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for us. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. Currently, we maintain: (i) an A.M. Best long term issuer credit rating of “a-” with a stable long term credit outlook; (ii) a S&P’s long term local issuer credit rating of “BBB+” with a negative outlook; (iii) a Fitch long term issuer default rating of “A-” with a stable outlook; and (iv) a Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s) senior unsecured debt rating of “Baa2” with a stable outlook. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including making it more expensive for us to access capital markets. The Insurance Subsidiaries are also parties to the Pooling Agreement that allows them to obtain a uniform rating from A.M. Best. If one or more of the Insurance Subsidiaries suffered a ratings downgrade, the ability of the entire pool to maintain its uniform rating would be uncertain. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the external rating agencies: (i) will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions; (ii) will increase the frequency and scope of their reviews; and (iii) may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. 30 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with regional and national property and casualty insurance companies, including public and mutual companies, some of which do not use independent agents and write directly with insureds. Many of these competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and operating resources, as well as greater information scale. The Internet has also emerged as a significant place of new competition, both from existing competitors and new competitors. A new form of competition may enter the marketplace as some reinsurers attempt to diversify their insurance risk by writing business in the primary marketplace. Because we sell our coverages through independent insurance agents who also are agents of our competitors, we face competition within each of our appointed independent insurance agencies. We also face competition, primarily in the commercial insurance market, from entities that self-insure their own risks. Some of our customers and potential customers from time to time examine the benefits and risks of self-insuring as an alternative to traditional insurance. The ability to self-insure is generally only available to large risks. However, some small and mid-sized public entities do have the opportunity to partially self-insure through the use of risk pools or joint insurance funds. New competition could cause the supply or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of any acts of terrorism not covered by, or exceeding, reinsurance limits could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”), as amended, established the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (“TRIP”) which became effective on November 26, 2002 and was a three-year federal program effective through 2005. On December 22, 2005, President George Bush signed a bill extending TRIA for two more years, continuing TRIP through 2007. On December 26, 2007, President George Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) which further extended TRIP for seven years until December 31, 2014, and also eliminated the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. This seven-year period was designed to provide the market with much needed stability. TRIA requires sharing the risk of future losses from terrorism between private insurers and the federal government, and is applicable to almost all commercial lines of insurance. Insurance companies with direct commercial insurance exposure in the U.S., including our company, are required to participate in this program. TRIA rescinded all previously approved exclusions for terrorism. Policyholders of non-workers compensation policies have the option to accept or decline the terrorism coverage we offer in our policies, or negotiate other terms. In 2008, approximately 90% of our commercial non-workers compensation policyholders purchased terrorism coverage. The terrorism coverage is mandatory for all workers compensation primary policies. In addition, 46%, or 10 of the 22 primary states in which we write commercial property coverage, mandated during 2008 the coverage of fire following an act of terrorism. These provisions apply to new policies written after enactment of TRIA. A terrorism act must be certified by the U.S. Secretary of Treasury in order to be covered by TRIA. Each participating insurance company will be responsible for paying out a certain amount in claims (a deductible) before federal assistance becomes available. This deductible, which was equal to approximately $201 million in 2009, is based on a percentage of commercial lines direct earned premiums for lines subject to TRIA from the prior calendar year. For losses above an insurer’s deductible, the federal government will cover 85%, while the insurer contributes 15%. Although the provisions of TRIPRA will serve to mitigate our exposure in the event of a large-scale terrorist attack, our deductible is substantial. The Parent is a holding company, and its subsidiaries may have a limited ability to declare dividends, and thus it may not have access to the cash that is needed to meet its cash needs. Substantially all of the Parent’s operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Restrictions on the ability of its subsidiaries, particularly the Insurance Subsidiaries, to pay dividends or make other cash payments to the Parent may materially affect its ability to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and dividends on its common stock. Under the terms of our debt and line of credit agreements and financial solvency laws affecting insurers, the Parent’s subsidiaries are permitted to incur indebtedness up to certain levels which may restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends, or the making of loans by its subsidiaries to the Parent. We cannot assure that the laws and agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of the Parent’s subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide the Parent with sufficient dividends or distributions to fund the Parent’s cash needs. Sources of funds for the Insurance Subsidiaries primarily consist of premiums, investment income, and proceeds from sales and redemption of investments. Such funds are applied primarily to payment of claims, insurance operating expenses, income taxes and the purchase of investments, as well as dividends and other payments. 31 Table of Contents The Insurance Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends to the Parent only if they are permitted to do so under the insurance regulations of their respective state of domicile. All of the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries are domiciled regulate the payment of dividends. Some states, including New Jersey, require that notice is given to the relevant state insurance commissioner prior to our Insurance Subsidiary domiciled in that respective state declaring any dividends and distributions payable to the Parent. During the notice period, the state insurance commissioner may disallow all or part of the proposed dividend upon determination that: (i) the insurer’s surplus is not reasonable in relation to its liabilities and adequate to its financial needs and those of the policyholders, or (ii) the insurer is otherwise in a hazardous financial condition. In addition, insurance regulators may block dividends or other payments to affiliates that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval upon determination that, because of the financial condition of the insurance subsidiary or otherwise, payment of a dividend or any other payment to an affiliate would be detrimental to an insurance subsidiary’s policyholders or creditors. Selective HR may also declare and pay dividends, which are restricted by the operating needs of this entity as well as professional employer organization’s licensing requirements to maintain a current ratio of at least 1:1. We are subject to a variety of modeling risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. We rely on complex financial models, such as predictive modeling, Risk Management Solutions, the ALGO risk tool and value-at-risk (“VaR”), which have been developed internally or by third parties to analyze historical loss costs and pricing, trends in claims severity and frequency, the occurrence of catastrophe losses, investment performance and portfolio risk. Flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions used by these financial models, could lead to increased losses. For example, VaR is a method used by us to evaluate portfolio risk. VaR is a probabilistic method of measuring the potential loss in portfolio value over a given time period and for a given distribution of historical returns. Portfolio risk, as measured by VaR, is affected by four primary risk factors: asset concentration, asset volatility, asset correlation and systematic risk. While VaR models are relatively sophisticated, the quantitative market risk information generated is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related models. We believe that statistical models alone do not provide a reliable method of monitoring and controlling market risk. Therefore, such models are tools and do not substitute for the experience or judgment of senior management. Our ability to reduce our exposure to risks depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance. We transfer our risk exposure to other insurance and reinsurance companies through reinsurance arrangements. Through these arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of our losses and loss adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of the insurance policy premiums. While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurance companies for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions, which may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Reinsurers which we have contracted with may default in their obligations as a result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. For example, we maintain reinsurance relationships with certain subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc., which is currently party to a securities lending agreement with the Federal Reserve and was also given a line of credit by the Federal Reserve in order to meet its liquidity needs. Due to the uncertainty associated with casualty business, current reinsurance recoverables are subject to the credit risk of the reinsurers. The inability of any of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations could materially and adversely affect our operations, as we remain primarily liable to our customers under the policies that we have insured. 32 Table of Contents We depend on independent insurance agents and other third party service providers. We market and sell our insurance products through independent, non-exclusive insurance agencies and brokers. Agents and brokers are not obligated to promote our insurance products, and they may also sell the insurance products of our competitors. As a result, our business depends in part on the marketing and sales efforts of these agencies and brokers. As we diversify and expand our business geographically, we may need to expand our network of agencies and brokers to successfully market our products. If these agencies and brokers fail to market our products successfully, our business may be adversely impacted. Also, independent agents may decide to sell their businesses to banks, other insurance agencies, or other businesses. Agents with our appointment may decide to buy other agents. Changes in ownership of agencies or expansion of agencies through acquisition could adversely affect an agency’s ability to control growth and profitability, thereby adversely affecting our business. In addition to independent insurance agents, we also rely on third party service providers to conduct a portion of our premium audits, safety management services, and claims adjusting services. HR Outsourcing relies on third party service providers for products such as health coverage, flexible spending accounts, and 401(k) savings plans. If these third party service providers fail to perform their respective services and/or fail to provide their products successfully and/or accurately, our business may be adversely impacted. We are heavily regulated in the states in which we operate and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries transact insurance business. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect individual policyholders and not stockholders or other investors. Our business can be adversely affected by regulations affecting property and casualty insurance companies. For example, laws and regulations can lead to mandated reductions in rates to levels that we do not believe are adequate for the risks we insure. Other laws and regulations limit our ability to cancel or refuse to renew certain policies and require us to offer coverage to all consumers. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretations, pertaining to insurance may also have an impact on our business. Our concentration of business may expose us to increased risks of regulatory matters in the states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries write insurance that could be greater than the risks we could be exposed to by transacting business in a greater number of geographic markets. Although the insurance industry is primarily regulated by individual states and the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives, such as the NFIP, the proposed National Insurance Act of 2007 (which would permit an optional federal charter for insurers), the proposed Free Choice Act (which would make it easier for workers to unionize), the Office of Foreign Assets Control, financial services regulation, privacy regulation and tort reform regulation can also impact the insurance industry and our company. Proposals intended to control the cost and availability of healthcare services have been debated in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. Although we neither write health insurance nor assume any healthcare risk, rules affecting healthcare services can affect workers compensation, commercial and personal automobile, liability, and other insurance that we do write. We cannot determine whether, or in what form, healthcare reform legislation may be adopted by the U.S. Congress or any state legislature or what effect, if any, such adoption would have on us as an insurer or as an employer. In addition, in view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is possible that the U.S. federal government will heighten its oversight of insurers such as us, including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation. Proposals to create such a federal regulatory system for property and casualty insurers continue to be considered. We cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: • Insurer solvency standards; • Insurer and agent licensing; • Investment restrictions; • Payment of dividends and distributions; • Provisions for current losses and future liabilities; • Deposit of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • Restrictions on policy terminations; • Unfair trade practices; and • Approval of premium rates and policy forms. 33 Table of Contents Further specific examples of insurance regulatory risks include: Automobile Insurance Regulation In 1998, New Jersey instituted an Urban Enterprise Zone (“UEZ”) Program, which requires New Jersey auto insurers to have a market share in certain urban territories that is in proportion to their statewide market share. Due to mandated urban rate caps, the premiums on these UEZ policies are typically insufficient to cover losses. Although the law that imposed these urban rate caps was repealed in 1998, the caps continue to be enforced by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“NJDOBI”). In an effort to mitigate this rate inadequacy, the NJDOBI implemented a new territorial rating structure in 2008. From time to time, legislative proposals are passed and judicial decisions are rendered related to automobile insurance regulation that could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in 2005 a New Jersey Supreme Court decision eliminated the application of the serious life impact standard to personal automobile bodily injury liability cases under the verbal tort threshold of New Jersey’s AICRA. This decision allows claimants to file lawsuits for non-economic damages without proving that the injuries sustained had a serious impact on their lives. Workers Compensation Insurance Regulation Because we voluntarily write workers compensation insurance, we are required by state law to support the involuntary market. Insurance companies that underwrite voluntary workers compensation insurance can either directly write involuntary coverage, which is assigned by state regulatory authorities, or participate in a sharing arrangement, where the business is written by a servicing carrier and the profits or losses of that serviced business are shared among the participating insurers. We currently participate through a sharing arrangement in all states. State laws regulate not only the amounts and types of workers compensation benefits that must be paid to injured workers, but in some instances the premium rates that may be charged by us to insure businesses for those liabilities. For example, in approximately 16 states, workers compensation insurance rates are set by the state insurance regulators and are adjusted periodically. Historically, monoline workers compensation business has been unprofitable whether written directly or handled through a sharing arrangement. Additionally, we are required to provide workers compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism under our workers compensation policies. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us will depend upon the nature, extent, location, and timing of such an act. Any such impact on us could be material. Homeowners Insurance Regulation We are subject to regulatory provisions that are designed to address potential availability and/or affordability problems in the homeowners property insurance marketplace. Involuntary market mechanisms, such as the New Jersey Insurance Underwriting Association (“New Jersey FAIR Plan”), generally result in assessments against the Insurance Subsidiaries. The New Jersey FAIR Plan writes fire and extended coverage on homeowners for those individuals unable to secure insurance elsewhere. Insurance companies who voluntarily write homeowners insurance in New Jersey are assessed a portion of any deficit from the New Jersey FAIR Plan based on their share of the voluntary market. Similar involuntary plans exist in most other states where we operate. Certain coastal states have instituted, or are considering adopting, legislation or regulation to maintain or increase the availability of property insurance, particularly homeowners insurance, in those states. As an example, certain states, including certain states in which the Insurance Subsidiaries transact homeowners insurance business, are considering legislation requiring that insurers that write homeowners insurance in any geographic area of a state must write homeowners insurance in all geographic areas of that state. We cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulation will be enacted, and the ultimate impact on us will depend upon the specifics of the legislation or regulation and the state or states that adopt any such legislation or regulation. Credit Scoring Regulation We use certain aspects of credit scores when evaluating individual risks. In June 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court interpreted the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”) concerning the meaning of the term “adverse action” as it relates to an insurance carrier’s use of credit scoring when it quotes premium for a personal lines applicant or raises premium for an existing personal lines insured. This interpretation requires insurance carriers to notify policyholders and applicants when their credit reports are the basis for adverse action, such as a rate increase. An adverse action notification, according to the interpretation, would be required if a quoted rate is higher than it would have been in a credit neutral comparison, which compares the credit score based-rate against a credit score neutral-rate. The interpretation does not require an insurance carrier to inform all policyholders that their credit reports have been reviewed in the underwriting process or that the rate they have received is higher than the best possible rate of the carrier. 34 Table of Contents In 2008, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) asked nine of the largest homeowners insurance companies to provide information it says will allow it to determine how consumer credit data is used by the companies in underwriting and rate setting. In addition, legislation was introduced that would amend the FCRA to prohibit personal lines property casualty insurers from utilizing credit information to underwrite a personal lines policy if the FTC study concludes that insurers use of credit information in underwriting “results in racial or ethnic discrimination or represents a proxy or proxy effect for race or ethnicity.” Changes to regulation regarding the use of credit scores at either the federal or state level may impact the way in which we price business and/or notify policyholders or applicants of adverse actions resulting from the use of these scores. However, the impact of such a change would apply similarly to all market participants that currently utilize credit scores. Regulation and Legislation of Agent Compensation The Insurance Subsidiaries sell insurance products and services primarily through appointed independent insurance agents. Accordingly, we seek to compensate our agents consistent with market practices and pay commissions and other consideration for business agents place with the Insurance Subsidiaries. We disclose our compensation practices in notices to all policyholders and on our public website, while referring all specific questions about agent compensation to the agent that placed the business with us. At present, we believe our agent compensation practices and disclosures meet current legal and regulatory requirements. In recent years, however, certain state attorney generals have investigated various alleged anticompetitive practices engaged in by several insurance brokers and national insurance companies that compete with us. Some of these investigations, mainly related to insureds that are much larger than our target customers, have resulted in consent orders under which brokers and several of our competitors have left uncontested the attorney general’s allegations that some of their compensation arrangements may have caused certain brokers to clandestinely “steer” clients to specific insurers without sufficient disclosure to the client. The consent orders also have, to one degree or another, banned the use of such compensation arrangements by the offending brokers and insurers in several, but not all, lines of business. Given the regulatory scrutiny of compensation arrangements with brokers to date, it is possible that compensation arrangements between insurers and independent agents will come under further review and will be the subject of public policy debate and possible legislative reform. We monitor these developments but cannot determine the nature or effect, if any, that such a public policy debate or possible legislative reform will have on our agent compensation practices or business. Reinsurance Regulation Florida, a state in which we do not write homeowners insurance or private passenger automobile insurance, passed legislation in 2008: (i) changing the funding and operation of the Florida state-sponsored insurer of last resort, Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), which is the Florida state-sponsored reinsurance facility; and (ii) prohibiting residential property insurers from including in rate calculations the additional costs of private reinsurance or loss exposure that duplicates FHCF coverage. In the short-term, such legislative action may increase overall private property reinsurance availability and reduce our costs outside of Florida. Should other states in which we write business enact similar legislation, it is possible that we may not be able to include the costs of reinsurance that we deem appropriate in our rates. In such an event, we may be forced, if permitted under applicable law, to exit certain markets. If not permitted to exit such markets, we may face unfair competitive situations, where state-sponsored insurers implement rate freezes or decreases. We face risks as a servicing carrier in the WYO Program of the U.S. government’s NFIP. We are a servicing carrier in the WYO program of the NFIP. Flood insurance is offered through the NFIP, which is managed by the Mitigation Division of FEMA under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. On September 30, 2008, a law was passed to extend the NFIP authority to issue new policies, increase coverage on existing policies, and issue renewal policies until March 6, 2009. The NFIP currently has borrowing authority established by Congress in the amount of $20.8 billion and, prior to Hurricane Ike in the third quarter of 2008, had borrowed $17.3 billion from the U.S. Treasury. FEMA is currently seeking additional borrowings from the U.S. Treasury as the current limitation is expected to only last into the first quarter of 2010. We continue to monitor developments with the NFIP. 35 Table of Contents As a servicing carrier in the WYO program we receive an expense allowance, or servicing fee, for policies written and claims serviced under the WYO program. Effective June 1, 2008, the NFIP revised their claim servicing fee structure to provide for fees of 1% of direct premiums written, which are paid even in non-catastrophe years, coupled with fees equal to 1.5% of all incurred losses. Prior to June 1, 2008, we received claims handling fees equal to 3.3% of all incurred losses. Effective October 1, 2008, the expense allowance for servicing policies written was increased 0.1% to 29.8%. Any future changes to the fee structure or the expenses incurred by us to adhere to additional regulatory requirements of the WYO program could have an adverse effect on our operations. While currently there are no active bills in Congress reforming the NFIP, we do expect to see legislative activity in 2009. It is possible that this federal program could be modified in an unfavorable manner having an adverse effect on our flood results, potentially affecting our continued participation in the program. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations could adversely impact our business. Tax legislation which changes the tax preference of municipal obligations under current law could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. At December 31, 2008, 48% of our investment portfolio was invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations; as such, the value of our investment portfolio could be adversely affected by any such legislation. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. Class action litigation could affect our business practices and financial results. Our industries have been the target of class action litigation in areas including the following: • After-market parts; • Urban homeowner insurance underwriting practices; • Credit scoring and predictive modeling pricing; • Investment disclosure; • Health maintenance organization practices; • Discounting and payment of personal injury protection claims; and • Shareholder class action suits. A change in our market share in New Jersey could adversely impact the results of our private passenger automobile business. New Jersey insurance regulations require New Jersey auto insurers to involuntarily write private passenger automobile insurance for individuals who are unable to obtain insurance in the voluntary market. These policies are priced according to a separate rating scheme that is established by the assigned risk plan and subject to approval by NJDOBI. The amount of involuntary insurance an insurer must write in New Jersey depends on the insurer’s statewide market share — the greater the market share, the more involuntary coverage the insurer is required to write. The underwriting of involuntary personal automobile insurance in New Jersey has been historically unprofitable. In addition to the assigned risk plan in New Jersey, there are ongoing attempts to address rate disparities between different geographic regions in the state, as well as judicial attempts to address limitations of lawsuits. In 2008, the NJDOBI implemented a new territorial rating structure to, in part, address the historical geographic subsidization. If our market share in New Jersey increases it could adversely impact the results of our private passenger automobile business if we are required to write more involuntary coverage. We depend on key personnel. To a large extent, the success of our businesses is dependent on our ability to attract and retain key employees, in particular our senior officers, key management, sales, information systems, underwriting, claims, HR Outsourcing, and corporate personnel. Competition to attract and retain key personnel is intense. While we have employment agreements with a number of key managers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our employees and cannot ensure that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. In addition, our workforce is older, with an average age of 45 as of December 31, 2008. Approximately 18% of our workforce as of December 31, 2008 was retirement eligible under our retirement and benefit plans. 36 Table of Contents We face risks from technology-related failures. Our businesses are increasingly dependent on computer and Internet-enabled technology. Our inability to anticipate or manage problems with technology associated with scalability, security, functionality, or reliability could adversely affect our ability to write business and service accounts, and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks in the HR Outsourcing business. Selective HR is affected by numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment matters, benefits plans, and taxes. In performing services for its clients, Selective HR assumes some obligations of an employer under these laws and regulations. Regulation in HR Outsourcing is constantly evolving, which could result in the modification of laws and regulations from time to time. We cannot predict what additional government initiatives, if any, affecting Selective HR may be promulgated in the future. Consequently, we also cannot predict whether Selective HR will be able to adapt to new or modified regulatory requirements or obtain necessary licenses and government approvals. The severe downturn in the U.S. economy has particularly affected small businesses, which are the core of Selective HR’s customer base. Selective HR enters into agreements with these small businesses to establish a three-party relationship under which Selective HR and the small business are co-employers of the employees who work at the small business’ location (“worksite employees”). As these small businesses continue to feel the strain of liquidity issues, they may: (i) bring “in-house” the services that Selective HR provides to them; (ii) reduce their payrolls; or (iii) cease to continue their operations all together. The loss of these worksite employees will adversely affect Selective HR’s revenues. Furthermore, since Selective HR is considered the co-employer of their clients’ employees, the rising unemployment rates in the U.S. will cause deterioration on Selective HR’s SUTA margins. This rise in unemployment rates, coupled with anticipated extensions of unemployment benefits, could put pressure on many states’ unemployment funds and is anticipated to result in future SUTA rate increases. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. We employ anti-takeover measures that may discourage potential acquirers and could adversely affect the value of the Parent common stock. The Parent owns all of the shares of stock of the Insurance Subsidiaries. State insurance laws require prior approval by state insurance departments of any acquisition or control of a domestic insurance company or of any company that controls a domestic insurance company. Any purchase of 10% or more of the Parent’s outstanding common stock would require prior action by all or some of the insurance commissioners of the Insurance Subsidiaries’ states of domicile. Other factors also may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of us, including, among others, provisions in our certificate of incorporation (as amended), relating to: • Supermajority voting and fair price to our business combinations; • Supermajority voting requirements to amend the foregoing provisions; and • The ability of the Board to issue “blank check” preferred stock. The New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act provides that we, as a New Jersey corporation, may not engage in business combinations specified in the statute with a shareholder having indirect or direct beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the voting power of the Parent’s outstanding stock (an interested shareholder) for a period of five years following the date on which the shareholder became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved by the board of the corporation before the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder. In addition, we may not engage at any time in any business combination with any interested shareholder other than: (i) a business combination approved by the Board prior to the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; (ii) a business combination approved by two-thirds of our shareholders (other than the interested shareholder); or (iii) a business combination that satisfies certain price criteria. These provisions also could have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price if a hostile takeover were attempted and may adversely affect the value of the Parent’s common stock. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 