Item 1A. Risk Factors Past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future financial performance. Future performance and historical trends may be adversely affected by the following factors, as well as other variables, and should not be relied upon to project future period results. 1. Our business may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in demand, both globally and in individual market segments, for information technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and consulting and systems integration services. Economic and political uncertainty may adversely impact our customers’ demand for our services. A general economic downturn, such as the current worldwide economic dislocation, has and may continue to adversely affect our customers’ demand for consulting and systems integration services. Our NPS segment generated approximately 39% of our revenue for fiscal 2010. While the pipeline for government projects continues to be generally less affected by economic downturns, the U.S. budget deficit, the cost of rebuilding infrastructure as a result of natural disasters, the cost of reconstruction in Iraq, the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the financial industry liquidity crisis may reduce the U.S. federal government’s demand and available funds for information technology projects, advers ely impacting our NPS segment and our business. 2. Our ability to continue to develop and expand our service offerings to address emerging business demands and technological trends will impact our future growth. If we are not successful in meeting these business challenges, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to implement solutions for our customers incorporating new developments and improvements in technology which translate into productivity improvements for our customers and to develop service offerings that meet the current and prospective customers’ needs are critical to our success. The markets we serve are highly competitive. Our competitors may develop solutions or services which make our offerings obsolete. Our ability to develop and implement up to date solutions utilizing new technologies which meet evolving customer needs in consulting and systems integration and technology outsourcing markets will impact our future revenue growth and earnings. 3. Our primary markets, technology outsourcing and consulting and systems integration, are highly competitive markets. If we are unable to compete in these highly competitive markets, our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 5 Our competitors include large, technically competent and well capitalized companies. As a result, the markets which we serve are highly competitive. This competition may place downward pressure on operating margins in our industry, particularly for technology outsourcing contract extensions or renewals. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current operating margins for technology outsourcing contracts, extended or renewed in the future. Any reductions in margins will require that we effectively manage our cost structure. If we fail to effectively manage our cost structure during periods with declining margins, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 4. Our ability to raise additional capital for future needs will impact our ability to compete in the markets we serve. We may require additional capital to purchase assets, complete strategic acquisitions, or for general liquidity needs. Declines in our credit rating or limits on our ability to sell additional shares may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital at a reasonable cost and may adversely impact our revenue growth and the price of our stock. 5. Our ability to consummate and integrate acquisitions may materially and adversely affect our profitability if we fail to achieve anticipated revenue improvements and cost reductions. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire and leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth will significantly impact future revenue and earnings as well as investor returns. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our margins and return on investment. 6. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges. We test our goodwill for impairment during the second quarter every year, and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 350 (SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”). If the fair value of a reporting unit is revised downward due to declines in business performance or other factors, an impairment under ASC 350 could result and a non-cash charge could be required. This could materially affect our reported net earnings. We also test certain deferred costs associated with contract acquisitions when the contract is materially underperforming or is expected to materially underperform in the future, as compared to the original bid model or budget. If the projected cash flows of the particular contract are not adequate to recover the unamortized cost balance of the asset group, the balance is adjusted in the tested period based on the contract’s fair value. These impairments could materially affect our reported net earnings. 7. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or may request out-of-scope work, and we may not be able to collect our receivables, materially and adversely affecting our profitability. 6 Over the course of a long-term contract, our customers’ financial fortunes may change affecting their ability to pay their obligations and our ability to collect our fees for services rendered. Additionally, we may perform work for the federal government, for which we must file requests for equitable adjustment or claims with the proper agency to seek recovery in whole or in part for out-of-scope work directed or caused by the customers in support of their critical missions. While we may resort to other methods to pursue our claims or collect our receivables, these methods are expensive and time consuming and success is not guaranteed. Failure to collect our receivables or prevail on our claims would have an adverse affect on our profitability. 8. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of services and the timeline for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Our commercial and federal government contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services required by the contract and to be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. 9. We are defendants in pending litigation which may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. As noted in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, we are currently party to a number of disputes which involve or may involve litigation. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of these disputes or the actual impact of these matters on our profitability. If we agree to settle these matters or judgments are secured against us, we may incur charges which may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and earnings. We are engaged in providing services under contracts with the U.S. government. These contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. U.S. government investigations of us, whether related to the Company’s federal government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting. 10. Our ability to provide our customers with competitive services is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to grow and provide our customers with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our customers. As we noted above, the markets we serve are highly competitive and competition for skilled employees in the technology outsourcing and consulting and systems integration markets is intense for both on-shore and offshore locales. In addition, services for some government clients require personnel with security clearances. Qualified personnel with security clearances are in very high demand. 11. Our international operations are exposed to risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, which may be beyond our control. 7 For fiscal 2010, approximately 37% of recognized revenues were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are exposed to various risks associated with operating in multiple countries including exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While this risk is partially mitigated by largely matching costs with revenues in a given currency, our exposure to fluctuations in other currencies against the U.S. dollar increases as revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar increase and as more of the services we provide are shifted to lower cost regions of the world. We believe that the percentage of our revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Also, we believe that some of our ability to match revenue and expenses in a given curren cy will decrease as more work is performed at offshore locations. We operate in approximately 90 countries and our operations in these countries are subject to the local legal and political environments. Our operations are subject to, among other things, employment, taxation, statutory reporting, trade restrictions and other regulations. Notwithstanding our best efforts, we may not be in compliance with all regulations around the world and may be subject to penalties and/or fines as a result. These penalties or fines may materially and adversely impact our profitability. 12. Our ability to compete in certain markets we serve is dependent on our ability to continue to expand our capacity in certain offshore locations. However, as our presence in these locations increases, we are exposed to risks inherent to these locations which may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. A significant portion of our application outsourcing and software development activities have been shifted to India and we plan to continue to expand our presence there and in other lower cost locations. As such, we are exposed to the risks inherent to operating in India including (1) a highly competitive labor market for skilled workers which may result in significant increases in labor costs as well as shortages of qualified workers in the future, (2) the possibility that the U.S. federal government or the European Union may enact legislation which may provide significant disincentives to customers to offshore certain of their operations which would reduce the demand for the services we provide in India and may adversely impact our cost structure and profitability. 13. In the course of providing services to customers, we may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and be exposed to claims for damages. The solutions we provide to our customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties resulting in claims for damages against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our clients from claims for intellectual property infringement for the services and equipment we provide under our contracts. The expense and time of defending against these claims may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, the publicity we may receive as a result of infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new business. 14. Generally our contracts contain provisions under which a customer may terminate the contract prior to completion. Early contract terminations may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our contracts contain provisions by which customers may terminate the contract prior to completion of the term of the contract. These contracts generally allow the customer to terminate the contract for convenience upon providing written notice. In these cases, we seek, either by defined contract schedules or through negotiations, recovery of our property, plant, equipment, outsourcing costs, investments, and other intangibles. There is no assurance we will be able to fully recover our investments. We may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from these contracts in the short-term. In the long-term, our reputation may be harmed by the publicity generated from contract terminations. 8 15. We may be exposed to negative publicity and other potential risks if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. We are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls to provide reasonable assurance a material misstatement will not occur in our financial statements. The failure of our controls to provide reasonable assurance that a material misstatement does not exist or to detect a material misstatement may cause us to be unable to meet our filing requirements and the resulting negative publicity may adversely affect our business, and our stock price may be materially and adversely affected. 16. Our largest customer, the U.S. federal government, accounts for a significant portion of our revenue and earnings. Inherent in the government contracting process are various risks which may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. Our exposure to the risks inherent in the government contracting process is material. These risks include government audits of billable contract costs and reimbursable expenses, project funding and requests for equitable adjustment, compliance with government reporting requirements as well as the consequences if improper or illegal activities are discovered. If any of these should occur, our reputation may be adversely impacted and our relationship with the government agencies we work with may be damaged, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our profitability. 17. Our performance on contracts on which we have partnered with third parties may be adversely affected if the third parties fail to deliver on their commitments. Our contracts are increasingly complex and require that we partner with other parties including software and hardware vendors to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Our ability to deliver the solution and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on the ability of our partners to meet their delivery schedules. If our partners fail to deliver their services or products on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If we are the primary contractor and our partners fail to perform as agreed, we may be liable to our customers for penalties or lost profits. These penalties or payments for lost profits may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability. 18. Our inability to protect client information could impair our reputation, and we could suffer significant financial loss. As one of the larger companies in the IT and professional services industry, we are subject to potentially adverse impacts if sensitive client information is unintentionally lost, stolen, or compromised. We are responsible for substantial amounts of sensitive client information which often includes confidential, private, and financial records. Failure to protect our clients could result in reparation costs and loss of business that may negatively impact our reputation and earnings. 9 19. Changes in the Company’s tax rates could affect its future results. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company’s effective tax rate is reduced because certain earnings are treated as being permanently reinvested outside the U.S. The provision that we currently rely on to defer U.S. taxation on certain passive earnings has currently expired, but we believe that this provision will be extended through fiscal year 2011. In the event that the provision is not extended after fiscal year 2010, the U.S. tax imposed could adversely impact our effective tax rate. There are a number of legislative revenue proposals pending that contain international tax provisions which may adversely affect our results, should they be enacted. 20. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. The credit markets have historically been volatile and therefore it is not possible for the Company to predict the ability of its clients and customers to access short term financing and other forms of capital. If a disruption in the credit markets were to occur, it could also pose a risk to the Company’s business as customers and suppliers may be unable to obtain financing to meet payment or delivery obligations to the Company. In addition, customers may decide to downsize, defer or cancel contracts which could negatively affect revenue. 21. Our foreign currency hedging program is subject to counterparty default risk. The Company enters into numerous types of financing arrangements with a wide array of counterparties related to foreign currency forward contracts and purchased options. As of April 2, 2010, the Company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with a notional value of $474 million and outstanding purchased option contracts with a notional value of $46 million. The terms of these contracts are often customized and complex. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts defaults, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the contract. During this current global economic downturn, the counterparty’s financial condition may deteriorate rapidly and with little notice and we may be unable to take action to protect our exposure. In the event of a counterparty default, we could incur significant losses, which may harm our business and financial condition. In the event that one or more of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to eventually recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty’s default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty. 22. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will not achieve revenue and profit objectives if we fail to compete effectively. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that most of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: 10 ▪ the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may or may not be awarded to us; ▪ the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope; ▪ the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that such protests or challenges could result in the requirement to resubmit bids, and in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contracts; and ▪ the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. 23. Catastrophic events or climate conditions may disrupt CSC’s business. The Company and its customers are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements relating to the protection of the environment. Our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected by the passage of climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent that such requirements increase prices charged to us by vendors because of increased compliance costs. At this point, we are unable to determine the impact that climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations could have on our overall business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 