Item 1A. Risk Factors Past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future financial performance. Future performance and historical trends may be adversely affected by the following factors, as well as other variables, and should not be relied upon to project future period results. 1. Our business may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in demand, both globally and in individual market segments, for information technology outsourcing, business process outsourcing and consulting and systems integration services. Economic and political uncertainty adversely impact our customers’ demand for our services. A general economic downturn may adversely impact our customers’ demand for consulting and systems integration services at a point in time when demand for such services in North America has begun to recover after a period of decline followed by limited demand. Our federal government segment generated approximately 34.6% of our revenue for fiscal 2006. While the pipeline for government projects continues to be robust, the increasing budget deficit, the cost of rebuilding infrastructure as a result of natural disasters and the cost of reconstruction in Iraq may reduce the federal government’s demand for information technology projects adversely impacting our federal government segment and our business. 2. Our ability to continue to develop and expand our service offerings to address emerging business demands and technological trends will impact our future growth. If we are not successful in meeting these business challenges our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to implement solutions for our customers incorporating new developments and improvements in technology which translate into productivity improvements for our customers and to develop service offerings that meet the current and prospective customers’ needs are critical to our success. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Our competitors may develop solutions or services which make our offerings obsolete. Our ability to develop and implement up to date solutions utilizing new technologies which meet evolving customer needs in consulting and systems integration and technology outsourcing markets will impact our future revenue growth and earnings. 3. Our primary markets, technology outsourcing and consulting and systems integration, are highly competitive markets. If we are unable to compete in these highly competitive markets our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors are large, technically competent and well capitalized companies. As a result, the markets which we serve are highly competitive. This competition places downward pressure on operating margins in our industry, particularly for technology outsourcing contract extensions or renewals. As a result we may not be able to maintain our current operating margins for technology outsourcing contracts, extended or renewed in the future. 5 Table of Contents Any reductions in margins will require that we effectively manage our cost structure. If we fail to effectively manage our cost structure during periods with declining margins our results of operations will be adversely affected. 4. Our ability to sign new business while the Board of Directors evaluates strategic alternatives may be materially and adversely affected. Our Board of Directors is currently exploring strategic alternatives as a result of expressions of interest from certain third parties. The inherent uncertainty involved in this process may influence the choices of potential customers. During the period of evaluation, and unless and until such time as the Board of Directors determines which of the alternatives would best serve the interests of the shareholders, our ability to sign new business may be materially and adversely affected. 5. Our ability to consummate and integrate acquisitions may materially and adversely affect our profitability if we fail to achieve anticipated revenue improvements and cost reductions. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire and leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth will significantly impact future revenue and earnings. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that the company will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our margins and return on investment. 6. Our customers may experience financial difficulties and we may not be able to collect our receivables, materially and adversely affecting our profitability. Over the course of a long-term contract our customers’ financial fortunes may change limiting their ability to pay their obligations and our ability to collect our fees for services rendered. Additionally, we may perform work for the federal government, for which we must file requests for equitable adjustment or claims with the proper agency to seek recovery in whole or in part for out-of-scope work directed or caused by the customers in support of their critical missions. While we may resort to other methods to pursue our claims or collect our receivables these methods are expensive and time consuming and success is not guaranteed. Failure to collect our receivables or prevail on our claims would have an adverse affect on our profitability. 7. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of services and the timeline for completion of contracts the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Our commercial and federal government contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services required by the contract and to be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. 8. We are defendants in pending litigation which may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. As noted in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K we are currently party to a number of disputes which involve or may involve litigation. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of these disputes or the actual impact of these matters on our profitability. If we agree to settle these matters or judgments secured against us we will incur charges which may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and earnings. We are engaged in providing services under contracts with the U.S. Government. These contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with these 6 Table of Contents requirements. U.S. Government investigations of us, whether related to the Company’s federal government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracting. 9. Our ability to provide our customers with competitive services is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to grow and provide our customers with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our customers. As we noted above, the markets we serve are highly competitive and competition for skilled employees in the technology outsourcing and consulting and systems integration markets is intense for both on-shore and off-shore locales. 10. Our international operations are exposed to risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, which may be beyond our control. For fiscal 2006 we earned approximately 38% of revenues in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result we are exposed to various risks associated with operating in multiple countries including exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While this risk is partially mitigated by largely matching costs with revenues in a given currency our exposure to fluctuations in other currencies against the U.S. dollar increases as revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar increase. We project that the percentage of our revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Also, we project that some of our ability to match revenue and expenses in a given currency will decrease as more work is performed at offshore locations. We operate in 27 countries and our operations in these countries are subject to the local legal and political environments. Our operations are subject to among other things, employment, taxation, statutory reporting, trade restrictions and other regulations. In spite of our best efforts we may not be in compliance with all regulations around the world and may be subject to penalties and or fines as a result. These penalties or fines may materially and adversely impact our profitability. 11. In the course of providing services to customers we may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and be exposed to claims for damages. The solutions we provide to our customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties resulting in claims for damages against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our clients from claims for intellectual property infringement for the services and equipment we provide under our contracts. The expense and time of defending against these claims may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, the publicity we may receive as a result of infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new business. 12. Generally our contracts contain provisions under which a customer may terminate the contract prior to completion. Early contract terminations may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our contracts contain provisions by which customers may terminate the contract prior to completion of the term of the contract. These contracts generally allow the customer to terminate the contract for convenience upon providing written notice. In these cases we seek, either by defined contract schedules or through negotiations, recovery of our investments in the contracts. There is no assurance we will be able to fully recover our investments. We may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from these contracts in the short-term. In the long-term our reputation may be harmed by the publicity generated from contract terminations. 7 Table of Contents 13. We may be exposed to negative publicity and other potential risks if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. We are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal controls over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls to provide reasonable assurance a material misstatement did not occur in our financial statements. The failure of our controls to provide reasonable assurance that a material misstatement does not exist or to detect a material misstatement may cause us to be unable to meet our filing requirements and the resulting negative publicity may adversely affect our business and our stock price may be materially and adversely affected. 14. Our largest customer, the U.S. federal government, accounts for a significant portion of our revenue and earnings. Inherent in the government contracting process are various risks which may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue, approximately 34.6%, is derived from contracts with the U.S. federal government. As a result our exposure to the risks inherent in the government contracting process is material. These risks include government audits of billable contract costs and reimbursable expenses, project funding and requests for equitable adjustment, compliance with government reporting requirements as well as the consequences if improper or illegal activities are discovered. If any of these should occur our reputation may be adversely impacted and our relationship with the government agencies we work with damaged resulting in a material and adverse affect on our profitability. 15. Our ability to raise additional capital for future needs will impact our ability to compete in the markets we serve. We may require additional capital to purchase assets, complete strategic acquisitions, repurchase shares on the open market or for general liquidity needs. Declines in our credit rating or limits on our ability to sell additional shares may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or materially increase our cost of capital. Our inability to raise additional capital at a reasonable cost may adversely impact our revenue growth and the price of our stock. 16. Our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected if we fail to execute according to plan the restructuring announced by the Company on April 4, 2006. The Company announced a restructuring plan in April 2006, to be carried out during fiscal 2007 and 2008. The restructuring will result in an estimated pre-tax charge of $375 million and estimated cost savings of $150 million and $300 million during fiscal 2007 and 2008, respectively. The majority of the restructuring activities involve employees in central and southern Europe with certain aspects of the restructuring subject to negotiation with employee works councils. Additionally, certain restructured activities will be centralized or transitioned to other locals requiring the transfer of knowledge. If we fail to execute our restructuring plan and achieve the cost savings we have estimated our margins and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. 17. Our performance on contracts on which we have partnered with third parties may be adversely affected if the third parties fail to deliver on their commitments. Our contracts are increasingly complex and require that we partner with parties including software and hardware vendors to provide the complex solutions required by our customers. Our ability to deliver the solution and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on the ability of our partners to meet their delivery schedules. If our partners fail to deliver their services or products on time our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If we are the primary contractor and our partners fail to perform as agreed we may be liable to our customers for penalties or lost profits. These penalties or payments for lost profits may have a material and adverse affect on our profitability. 8 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 