Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors below represent what we believe are the known material risk factors with respect to the Company and our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operations, the industry in which we operate, our financial position or our future financial results.Our business depends on the availability of a large number of highly qualified IT professionals and our ability to recruit and retain these professionals.We actively compete with many other IT service providers for qualified professional staff. The availability of qualified professional staff may affect our ability to provide services and meet the needs of our customers in the future. An inability to fulfill customer requirements at agreed upon rates due to a lack of available qualified staff may adversely impact our revenue and operating results in the future.Increased competition and the bargaining power of our large customers may cause our billing rates to decline, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and, if we are unable to control our personnel costs accordingly, on our margins and operating results.We have experienced reductions in the rates at which we bill some of our larger customers for services during previous highly competitive market conditions. Additionally, we actively compete against many other companies for business with new and existing clients. Bill rate reductions or competitive pressures may lead to a decline in revenue or the rates we bill our customers for services. If we are unable to make commensurate reductions in our personnel costs, our margins and operating results in the future may be adversely affected.Liability or damage to our reputation could arise if we fail to protect client and Company data or information systems as obligated by law or contract if our information systems are breached, or we fail to perform under related customer contracts.As a company operating in the IT and professional services industry, we are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to communicate among our locations within the United States and around the world, as well as with our clients and vendors. Although the Company has had no significant prior cyber incidents, and we believe the likelihood of the occurrence of such incidents is low, the breadth and complexity of our technological infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information such as protected health information (PHI) under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The Company’s failure to protect PHI covered under HIPAA could result in fines and penalties which could have a material, adverse impact on us. Additionally, if we fail to perform under related customer contracts, damage to our reputation could occur, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to sign contracts with such customers, or recruit qualified personnel to perform our services, in the future.We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a single customer and a significant reduction in the amount of IT services requested by this customer would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.IBM is CTG’s largest customer. CTG provides services to various IBM divisions in many locations. During 2011, the National Technical Services Agreement (NTS Agreement) with IBM was renewed for three years until December 31, 2014. In 2013, 2012, and 2011, IBM accounted for $101.0 million or 24.1%, $113.5 million or 26.7%, and $116.5 million or 29.4% of the Company’s consolidated revenue, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenue in 2013, 2012 or 2011. The Company’s accounts receivable from IBM at December 31, 2013 and 2012 amounted to $11.0 million and $12.6 million, respectively. In January 2014, IBM announced its intention to spin off its x86 server division to Lenovo. A portion of the Company's 2013 revenue from IBM was related to the x86 server division. The Company expects to retain a significant portion of the revenue derived from the x86 server division despite the transition of the division from IBM to Lenovo. If IBM were to significantly reduce the amount of IT services they purchase from the Company, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected.8Table of ContentsThe currency exchange, legislative, tax, regulatory and economic risks associated with international operations could have an adverse effect on our operating results if we are unable to mitigate or hedge these risks.We have operations in the United States and Canada in North America, and in Belgium, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom in Europe. Although our foreign operations conduct their business in their local currencies, these operations are subject to their own currency fluctuations, legislation, employment and tax law changes, and economic climates. These factors as they relate to our foreign operations are different than those of the United States. Although we actively manage these foreign operations with local management teams, our overall operating results may be negatively affected by local economic conditions, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, or tax, regulatory or other economic changes beyond our control.Our customer contracts generally have a short term or are terminable on short notice and a significant number of failures to renew contracts, early terminations or renegotiations of our existing customer contracts could adversely affect our results of operations.Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. We performed 88.8% of our services on a time-and-materials basis during 2013. As such, our customers generally have the right to terminate a contract with us upon written notice without the payment of any financial penalty. Client projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and are unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy in general. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated future revenue and we may not be able to eliminate the associated costs required to support those contracts in a timely manner. Consequently, our operating results in subsequent periods may be lower than expected. Our clients can cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If they do so, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. The cancellation or reduction in scope of an engagement could, therefore, reduce the utilization rate of our professionals, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as a guarantee of similar or better future performance. Due to these factors, we believe that our results from operations may fluctuate from period to period in the future.A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period.We have goodwill recorded totaling approximately $37.6 million at December 31, 2013. At least annually, we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the business operations to which this goodwill relates. This estimated fair value could change if there is a significant decrease in the enterprise value of CTG, if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of transactions involving similar companies decreases which could occur given the economic downturn in recent years in the countries in which the Company operates, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by this business unit. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Changes in government regulations and laws affecting the IT services industry, and the industries in which our clients operate , including accounting principles and interpretations, and the taxation of domestic operations could adversely affect our results of operations.Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), and new SEC regulations, create uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or updated laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations which, in many instances, is due to their lack of specificity. As a result, the application of these new standards and regulations in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance 9Table of Contentsand public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, tax regulations and other standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our continuing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ audit of internal control require the commitment of significant internal, financial and managerial resources.The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) or other accounting rule making authorities may issue new accounting rules or auditing standards that are different than those that we presently apply to our financial results. Such new accounting rules or auditing standards could require significant changes from the way we currently report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been the subject of frequent changes in interpretations. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the review of accounting policies by the SEC as well as by national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of future accounting policy changes may accelerate. Such future changes in financial accounting standards may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, including results of transactions entered into before the effective date of the changes.The Company currently offers limited healthcare coverage to its hourly employees, which includes nearly half of its total employees. Under the PPACA, the Company will be required to offer expanded healthcare coverage to those employees, or potentially pay financial penalties. The Company intends to pass these additional costs on to its customers. However, in the event the Company is not able to pass some or all of these costs to its customers, the Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted when the legislation goes into effect in 2015.We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provisions for income and other taxes and our tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in various federal, state and international tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.During 2013 and 2012, the Company experienced higher unemployment tax rates in many of the states in which we do business, which increased our direct costs and negatively impacted our profitability. Considering current economic conditions in the U.S., the Company expects these rates will not significantly change in 2014 and future years.Each year, the U.S. government enacts or fails to enact legislation based upon the current political climate. On an annual basis, Congress must approve and the President must sign the appropriation bills which govern spending by each of the federal agencies, which could impact the industries to which we provide services. If Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to appropriate funds or pass the annual budget on a timely basis, there may be delays, reductions or cessations of funding to our clients, thereby reducing their demand for our services. In addition, from time to time it has been necessary for Congress to raise the U.S. debt ceiling in order to allow for borrowing necessary to fund government operations. If Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling on a timely basis, or if legislatively mandated cuts in federal programs, known as sequestration, occur, there may be delays, reductions or cessation of funding to our clients.If we repatriate our cash balances from our foreign operations, we may be subject to additional tax liabilities.We earn a portion of our operating income outside of the United States, and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the United States may result in higher effective tax rates and additional tax liabilities for the Company. In addition, there have been proposals to change the tax laws in the United States that would significantly impact how United States based multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form, or in what time frame, any proposed legislation may be passed, if enacted, these tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows.10Table of ContentsExisting and potential customers may outsource or consider outsourcing their IT requirements to foreign countries in which we may not currently have operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new customers or retain existing customers.In the past few years, more companies have started using, or are considering using, low cost offshore outsourcing centers to perform technology-related work and complete projects. Currently, we have partnered with clients to perform services in Russia to mitigate and reduce this risk to our Company. However, the risk of additional increases in the future in the outsourcing of IT solutions overseas to countries where we do not have operations could have a material, negative impact on our future operations.The introduction of new IT products or services may render our existing IT Solutions or IT Staffing offerings to be obsolete, which, if we are unable to keep pace with these corresponding changes, could have an adverse effect on our business.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to implement and deliver IT Solutions or IT Staffing services that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our solutions or staffing offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements.Decreases in demand for IT solutions and staffing services in the future would cause an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.The Company’s revenue and operating results are significantly affected by changes in demand for its services. In recent years, the U.S. economy, where the Company performs greater than 80% of its total business based upon revenue, significantly deteriorated primarily due to subprime mortgage issues, financial market conditions, and other economic concerns. In 2009, these economic pressures also extended to the European markets where the Company operates. These negative pressures on the economy led to a worldwide contraction of the credit markets, more severe recessionary conditions, and a decline in demand for the Company’s services which negatively affected the Company’s revenue and operating results in 2009 as compared with 2008. Economic pressures also led to customers’ reducing their spending on IT projects and external professional services. Economic conditions in 2010 through 2013 stabilized in the U.S., and in 2013 began to improve in Europe. Declines in spending for IT services in 2014 or future years may adversely affect our operating results in the future as they have in the past.The IT services industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which means that our customers have a number of choices for providers of IT services and we may not be able to compete effectively.The market for our services is highly competitive. The market is fragmented, and no company holds a dominant position. Consequently, our competition for client requirements and experienced personnel varies significantly by geographic area and by the type of service provided. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater technical, financial, and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have in the markets we collectively serve. In addition, clients may elect to increase their internal IT systems resources to satisfy their custom software development and integration needs. Finally, our industry is being impacted by the growing use of lower-cost offshore delivery capabilities (primarily India and other parts of Asia). There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or future competitors or that future competition will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Changing economic conditions and the effect of such changes on accounting estimates could have a material impact on our results of operations.The Company has also made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of its assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare its consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC and other accounting rulemaking authorities. Such estimates primarily relate to the valuation of goodwill, the valuation of stock options for recording equity-based compensation expense, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, investment valuation, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, legal matters, other contingencies and estimates of progress toward completion and direct profit or loss on contracts, as applicable. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ from these estimates. Changes in the economic climates in which the Company operates may affect 11Table of Contentsthese estimates and will be reflected in the Company’s financial statements in the event they occur. Such changes could result in a material impact on the Company’s results of operations.12Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.