Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. The recent increase in demand for information technology (IT) services and staffing may only be temporary and another significant decline in demand similar to that experienced from 1999 through 2003 would cause an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There was a steady decline in demand in the technology services sector from the second half of 1999 through 2003 as a recession in the technology industry negatively affected spending for IT services. We believe that staffing demand began to increase in 2004, and returned to more normalized levels in 2005 for the first time in five years. Overall, staffing demand was positive in 2006. However, the Company experienced a significant decline in headcount requirements from its significant customer during 2006. Declines in spending for IT services in 2007 or future years may again adversely affect our operating results in the future as it has in the past. Our business depends on a large number of highly qualified professionals and, if we are not able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these professionals, we would not be able to provide high quality services to our current and future customers, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. We actively compete with other IT service providers for qualified professional staff. The availability or lack thereof of qualified professional staff may affect our ability to provide services and meet the needs of our customers in the future. An inability to fulfill customer requirements due to a lack of available qualified staff at agreed upon compensation rates may adversely impact our operating results in the future. Increased competition and the bargaining power of a significant customer may cause our billing rates to decline, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and, if we are unable to control our personnel costs accordingly, our operating results. While the rates at which we billed our customers for services stabilized somewhat from 2004 to 2006, there had been a general decline in these rates as a result of the technology recession from the second half of 1999 through 2003. We have experienced several significant reductions in the rates for which we bill for services for our significant customer in the past several years. Additionally, we actively compete against many other companies for business with new and existing clients. Competitive pressures may lead to a further decline in the rates that we bill our customers for services, which may adversely affect our operating results in the future. The currency, legislative, tax, regulatory and economic risks associated with international operations could have an adverse effect on our operating results if we are unable to mitigate or hedge these risks. We have operations in the United States and Canada in North America, and in Belgium, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg in Europe. Although our foreign operations conduct their business in their local currencies, they are subject to currency fluctuations. Each of our operations is subject to legislation, employment and tax law changes, and economic climates. These factors related to our foreign operations are different than those of the United States. Although we actively manage these foreign operations with local management teams, economic conditions or other changes beyond our control may negatively affect our overall operating results. 7 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a single customer and a significant reduction in the amount of IT services requested by this customer would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. In 2006, International Business Machines (IBM) was our largest customer, accounting for $115.4 million or 35.3% of consolidated revenue. The Company’s accounts receivable balance from IBM at December 31, 2006 totaled $10.9 million. During 2005, we signed an addendum to the Technical Services Agreement we have with IBM making us a predominant supplier to IBM’s Systems and Technology Group. This addendum has an expiration date which was extended during 2006 to December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from IBM in 2007 and in future years. However, a significant decline or the loss of the revenue from IBM would have a significant negative effect on our operating results. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2006, 2005 or 2004. The IT services industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which means that our customers have a number of choices for providers of IT services and we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our services is highly competitive. The market is fragmented, and no company holds a dominant position. Consequently, our competition for client requirements and experienced personnel varies significantly by geographic area and by the type of service provided. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater technical, financial, and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have in the markets we collectively serve. In addition, clients may elect to increase their internal IT systems resources to satisfy their custom software development and integration needs. Changes in government regulations and laws affecting the IT services industry, including accounting principles and interpretations and the taxation of domestic and foreign operations, could adversely affect our results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations which, in many instances, is due to their lack of specificity. As a result, the application of these new standards and regulations in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant internal, financial and managerial resources. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC or other accounting rulemaking authorities may issue new accounting rules or standards that are different than those that we presently apply to our financial results. Such new accounting rules or standards could require significant changes from the way we currently report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been the subject of frequent interpretations. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the review of accounting policies by the SEC as well as by national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of future accounting policy changes may accelerate. Such future changes in financial accounting standards may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, including results of transactions entered into before the effective date of the changes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and our tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. 8 Table of Contents Our customer contracts generally have a short term or are terminable on short notice and a significant number of failures to renew, early terminations or renegotiations of our existing customer contracts could adversely affect our results of operations. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. We perform approximately 90% of our services on a time and materials basis. As such, our customers generally have the right to terminate a contract with us upon written notice without the payment of any financial penalty. Client projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and are unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy in general. When contracts are terminated, we lose the associated revenue and we may not be able to eliminate the associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our operating results in subsequent periods may be lower than expected. Our clients can cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If they do so, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. The cancellation or reduction in scope of an engagement could, therefore, reduce the utilization rate of our professionals, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as a guarantee of similar or better future performance. Due to these factors, we believe that our results of operations may fluctuate from period-to-period in the future. The introduction of new IT products or services may render our existing staffing, IT solutions, or outsourcing offerings to be obsolete, which, if we are unable to keep pace with these corresponding changes, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to implement and deliver strategic staffing, IT solutions, and outsourcing services that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our staffing, solution or outsourcing offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. Existing and potential customers are outsourcing or considering outsourcing their IT requirements to foreign countries in which we may not currently have operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new customers or retain existing customers. In the past few years, more companies are using or are considering using low cost offshore outsourcing centers to perform technology related work and complete projects. Currently, we have partnered with clients to perform services in Russia and India to mitigate and reduce this risk to our Company. However, the risk of additional increases in the future in the outsourcing of IT solutions overseas could have a material, negative impact on our future operations. A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. We have goodwill totaling approximately $35.7 million at December 31, 2006 resulting from our acquisition of Elumen Solutions, Inc. (Elumen) in early 1999. Elumen provided IT services into healthcare and related companies, and was merged with the Company’s existing staff which also served the healthcare industry. At least annually, we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the business operations to which this goodwill relates. This estimated fair value could change if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of such companies decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by this business unit. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 