ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSForward-Looking StatementsThis Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, product development, business strategy, continued acceptance of our products, market growth, and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” the negative of these terms, or other similar words or comparable terminology. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. However, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our business outlook, actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement.The continued effects of the adverse global economic climate have had and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our business outlook, our business, operating results and financial condition.We participate in the global commercial and government communications markets, which are characterized by rapid technological advances and constant changes. For the past several years, our customers and the end-markets that we serve have been materially impacted by adverse global economic conditions. The impact, severity and duration of these conditions are impossible to predict with precision. These conditions have already resulted in: (i) changes to our commercial and government customers’ historical spending priorities, (ii) reduced military budgets, and (iii) extreme pressures on government budgets throughout the world. In addition to operating in a difficult global economic environment, some of our end customers are located in emerging countries that are currently undergoing sweeping political changes. Global international monetary issues and concerns continue to be unsettled and it remains possible that another worldwide credit crisis could occur. We believe that the aggregation of these conditions has resulted in the current suppression of end-market demand for many of the products that we sell and services that we provide. Although we believe that we will ultimately experience long-term growth, these adverse conditions could last for many years. We believe that nearly all of our customers will continue to face capital and operating budget constraints and a difficult credit environment. If worldwide interest rates increase, it is possible that new projects to install or upgrade telecommunications networks that are currently being contemplated by our customers, particularly in emerging markets which generally receive financing from European banks and/or financial assistance from various governments, will be postponed or canceled.None of our three operating segments have been immune to these adverse conditions and each continues to face an uncertain economic environment. These adverse conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our businesses in a number of ways, including:•Difficulty in forecasting our results of operations – It is difficult to accurately forecast our results of operations as we cannot predict the severity, or the duration, of the current adverse economic environment or the impact it will have on our current and prospective customers. If our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we anticipate, our business outlook will prove to be inaccurate. •Additional reductions in telecommunications equipment and systems spending may occur – Our businesses have been negatively affected, both currently and in the past, by uncertain economic environments both in the overall market and, more specifically, in the telecommunications sector. Our customers have reduced their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems and in some cases postponed or reduced the purchase of our products and systems. As a result of ongoing difficult global economic environment, our customers may further reduce their spending on telecommunications equipment and systems which would negatively impact all three of our business segments. If this occurs, it would adversely affect our business outlook, revenues, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill.19Index•Our customers may not be able to obtain financing – Although many of our products are relatively inexpensive when compared to the total systems or networks that they are incorporated into, our sales are affected by our customers’ ability to obtain the sufficient financing they may require to build out their networks, fund operations and ultimately make purchases from us. Many of our emerging market customers obtain financing for network build outs from large European commercial banks and/or financial assistance from various governments. Our customers’ inability to obtain sufficient financing would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, if the current economic environment and lack of financing results in insolvencies for our customers, it would adversely impact the recoverability of our accounts receivable which would, in turn, adversely impact our results of operations.•Our ability to maintain affordable credit insurance may become more difficult – In the normal course of our business, we purchase credit insurance to mitigate some of our domestic and international credit risk. Although credit insurance remains generally available, upon renewal, it may become more expensive to obtain and might require higher deductibles than in the past. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to obtain adequate credit insurance consistent with our past practices.Our 2014 business outlook and operating results are difficult to forecast, as operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and are likely to be volatile.We have experienced, and will experience in the future, significant fluctuations in new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share from period-to-period. For instance, a large portion of our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers segments’ net sales are derived from products such as satellite earth station equipment and satellite earth station traveling wave tube amplifiers, respectively, that generally have short-lead times. As a result, bookings and backlog related to these products are extremely sensitive to short-term fluctuations in customer demand. The remaining portion of our telecommunications transmission and our RF microwave amplifiers segments’ net sales are generally derived from large contracts or military program opportunities that are subject to lengthy sales cycles and therefore difficult to predict. As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, our mobile data communications segment is expected to experience a significant decline in revenues in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. Although we believe that we will receive additional BFT-1 contract awards, our two-year $43.6 million BFT-1 sustainment contract with the U.S. Army expires on March 31, 2014. Given U.S. government budget pressures and the unknown timing of the U.S. Army's plan to roll-out the next generation BFT system, it is possible that our current BFT-1 contract will not be renewed, extended or replaced with a new contract for performance periods beyond March 31, 2014. As such, it is possible that the U.S. Army may not exercise its option to renew its annual $10.0 million intellectual property license for our BFT-1 technology beyond March 31, 2014.Our new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, may vary significantly from period-to-period because of other factors including: sales mix; fluctuating market demand; price competition; new product introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in the timing of delivery of components or subsystems; the financial performance of acquisitions; new accounting standards relating to acquisitions and revenue recognition; political instability; regulatory developments; changes in income tax rates or tax credits; the price and expected volatility of our stock (which will impact, among other items, the amount of stock-based compensation expense we may record); and general global economic conditions.Reductions in spending or changes in spending priorities that reduce the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) budget and the U.S. government's debt could have a material adverse effect on us including negatively impacting our fiscal 2014 business outlook. During fiscal years ended July 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to the U.S. government (including sales to prime contractors to the U.S. government) were $110.9 million, $207.8 million and $378.0 million or 34.7%, 48.9% and 61.7%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Excluding net sales in our mobile data communications segment (which derives a substantial majority of its net sales from the U.S. government), sales to the U.S. government represented 28.2%, 32.4% and 29.3% of remaining net sales in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Approximately 24.6% of our backlog at July 31, 2013 consisted of orders related to U.S. government contracts and our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2014 and beyond depends, in part, on receiving new orders from the U.S. government, which is currently under extreme budget pressures.20IndexIn connection with legislation already passed, it is possible that the U.S. government could reduce or further delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, U.S. government programs which we participate in. Because many of the items we sell to the U.S. government are included in large programs, it is difficult, if not impossible, to determine specific amounts appropriated for our products and services. As such, certain assessments relating to the impact of changes in U.S. government spending may prove to be incorrect. The impact of a legislation process known as sequestration (or mandated reductions) and the current U.S. government partial shutdown remains a significant risk. Part I of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Control Act) provided for a reduction in planned defense budgets by at least $487 billion over a ten year period and certain impacts were incorporated in the U.S. government's fiscal year 2013 budget. Part II mandated substantial additional reductions which took effect March 1, 2013, and resulted in approximately $40.0 billion of additional reductions to the U.S. government's fiscal year 2013 defense budget.On April 10, 2013, the President of the United States delivered his proposed government fiscal 2014 budget to Congress which included lower final defense appropriations as compared to its fiscal 2013. This proposed budget does not reflect the reductions mandated by Part II of the Budget Control Act and is the subject of ongoing significant debate and an uncertain schedule. If Congress does not take legislative action, sequestration will be applied to defense spending during the government's fiscal 2014. If Congress does not timely pass a fiscal 2014 defense appropriation or a continuing resolution, we may be asked or required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. Government contracts even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments. In June 2013, the DoD provided a report to Congress on how it proposed to distribute the reductions required by sequestration across certain spending accounts and funding lines and we are not certain how these potential reductions might impact the sale of our products and services. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how budget reductions will be applied and what challenges the reductions will present. The Unites States' debt ceiling also continues to be a major outstanding fiscal issue, with the debt limit currently expected to be reached shortly. Congress and the President continue to debate raising the debt ceiling, among other fiscal issues, as they negotiate plans for long-term national fiscal policy. The outcome of these debates could have a significant impact on future defense spending. In addition, if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised, we may be asked or required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. Government contracts even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments. Faced with continued budget uncertainty and continued threats to national security, the DoD is reviewing the roles and structure of the U.S. military and its overall strategy including force posture, investments and institutional management. Actions stemming from the review, which is expected to be provided to Congress during the government's fiscal 2014, as well as any alternative budget plans proposed by the DoD and considered by Congress, may impact future funding for our programs.We believe that despite budget pressures, spending on the modernization and maintenance of advanced communications systems that include our products and services will continue to be a national priority. Future defense spending is expected to include the development and procurement of new manned and unmanned military platforms and systems, along with advanced electronics and software to enhance the capabilities of existing systems and provide real-time integration of surveillance, information management, strike and battle management platforms. Our products and services are used in various programs involving command and control, network communications, enhanced situational awareness, satellite systems and restricted programs as well as numerous international and homeland security programs. Although the types of communications products and services we offer appear to be a funding priority over the long-term, a significant decline in defense spending or a shift in funding priorities may have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows depending on the platforms and programs affected by such budget reductions or shifts in funding priorities. We have experienced some recent delays of orders resulting from the U.S. government partial shutdown and it is possible that this partial shutdown will continue for a prolonged period. We cannot predict the outcome of the U.S. government budget issues or the length or magnitude of the impact of the current partial shutdown. As such, it is possible that our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2014 and beyond may significantly be impacted. In addition, ultimately, the U.S. government may be unable to timely complete its budget process or fully agree upon spending priorities. If the U.S. government budget process results in a prolonged shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, we may experience further delayed orders, delayed payments, declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows. We may experience related supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. All of the aforementioned conditions could have a material adverse effect on our fiscal 2014 business and financial outlook, our operating results and our financial condition.21IndexOur contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to unique business and commercial risks.Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique business and commercial risks, including:•unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions;•unpredictable order placements, reductions, delays or cancellations;•higher than expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; and•unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close out procedures, including government audit and approval of final indirect rates.All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government for its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or costs committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. In addition to the U.S. government’s right to terminate, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary funding. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract may not be fully funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract only if, and when, appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of awards or lead to changes in program content. We obtain certain of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win additional contracts or that actual contracts that are awarded will ultimately be profitable.Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audit by various agencies and the outcome of audits are difficult to predict. All of our U.S. government contracts, such as our Advanced Time Division Multiple Access ("TDMA") Interface Processor ("ATIP") contract with the U.S. Navy with a potential value of $29.0 million, can be audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”) and other U.S. government agencies and we can be subject to penalties arising from post-award contract audits (sometimes referred to as a Truth in Negotiations Act or “TINA” audit) or cost audits in which the value of our contracts may be reduced. In the past, we have been audited with no material adjustments proposed.As discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (14)(b) Legal Proceedings and Other Matters” included in “Part II - Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in May 2011, we were notified that our original BFT-1 contract, which was awarded to us on August 31, 2007 (our fiscal 2008), was selected for a post award audit by the DCAA. We received total funded orders against this contract, which expired December 31, 2011, of $376.2 million. A post award audit generally focuses on whether the contractor disclosed current, accurate and complete cost or pricing data in the contract negotiation process pursuant to TINA and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”). Shortly after this audit began, the Defense Contract Management Agency (“DCMA”) advised us that the fiscal 2008 award of the BFT-1 contract triggered full coverage under the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”) and that we should submit an initial CAS disclosure statement. The CAS is a set of specialized rules and standards that the U.S. government uses for determining costs on large, negotiated contracts. We have cooperated fully with the DCAA and DCMA and provided them information that supports our view that the August 2007 BFT-1 contract is subject to a CAS and TINA exemption for fixed price commercial contract line items (such as our mobile satellite transceivers and other hardware), as defined by the FAR. In March 2013, DCMA advised us that it was not making any determination with regard to the commerciality of our products and that it withdrew its request, at that time, for a CAS disclosure statement.In May 2013, the DCAA provided us a draft audit report which stated that the commercial item exemption to TINA did not apply because there was no official determination of commerciality for Delivery Order No. 1 at the time of award. Thus, according to the DCAA, TINA applied and we were required to disclose current, accurate and complete cost or pricing data. The DCAA recommended a price adjustment of $11.8 million (plus interest). This recommended price adjustment is essentially the same amount that was included in a draft audit report that was presented to us in December 2012.22IndexConsistent with the position we have taken throughout the audit, we informed the DCAA that we believe the May 2013 draft audit report is erroneous. Among other things, we noted that the U.S. Army had previously determined, in July 2007, that the MT 2011F mobile satellite transceiver was a commercial item on a separate contract awarded to us. We also noted that the same contracting officer who signed the August 2007 BFT-1 contract, in an email sent four days after the BFT-1 contract was signed, indicated that certain of our mobile satellite transceivers and other equipment on the August 2007 BFT-1 contract were commercial. We advised the DCAA that, although the August 2007 BFT-1 contract did not initially incorporate FAR commercial clauses, the contract was modified in January 2008 to incorporate those clauses, and that an Administrative Contracting Officer confirmed, in January 2008, that Delivery Order No. 1 was for commercial items. Regardless of the commerciality determination, we informed the DCAA that we provided the U.S. Army with all information required under TINA and the FAR prior to August 31, 2007. We disagree with the DCAA's draft audit report and provided a written response in May 2013. We have not heard back from the DCAA since submitting our written response. We intend to vigorously dispute any claim by the U.S. government in regards to this matter.Although we do not believe that we will ultimately be required to refund monies to the U.S. government, if it is ultimately determined that a cost or price adjustment for our BFT-1 contract is appropriate, we would be required to refund monies to the U.S. government, with interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future audits on other contracts may result in proposed adjustments that ultimately could also have a material adverse effect on our result of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our expected levels of mobile data communications segment revenues in future years.Our mobile data communications segment is expected to experience a significant decline in revenues in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. Operating income in fiscal 2014 for this segment and for the foreseeable future is expected to be largely driven by the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee for our BFT-1 technology. We currently generate BFT-1 sustainment revenue (including the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee) pursuant to a two-year $43.6 million BFT-1 contract which expires March 31, 2014. Given current U.S. government budget pressures and the unknown timing of the U.S. Army's roll-out of the next generation BFT system, it is possible that we may not generate any additional revenue or operating income associated with BFT-1 sustainment services (including the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee) beyond March 31, 2014. Although we expect that our BFT-1 contract will be renewed, extended or replaced, the amount of future operating income associated with BFT-1 sustainment activities may, in the future, be significantly lower. Specific terms and conditions related to the annual$10.0 million intellectual property license fee are covered by a separate licensing agreement that provides for annual renewals, at the U.S. Army's option, for up to a five-year period ending March 31, 2017, after which time the U.S. Army will have a limited non-exclusive right to use certain of our intellectual property for no additional intellectual property licensing fee. If the U.S. Army does not exercise its option to renew the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee, it would have a material adverse effect on our fiscal 2014 business outlook, our future business outlook and our future operating results. We have recently completed a repositioning of our mobile data communications segment and we intend to focus future business development activities primarily on our current BFT-1 customer. We believe that by seeking to work collaboratively with the U.S. Army to ensure that its short-term and long-term needs are addressed, we will enhance our competitive positioning for potential new awards and programs in the future. We also expect to continue to offer our customers niche products. If we are ultimately unable to significantly increase sales of our current products, develop and sell new products or services, win new programs or replace the operating income contribution of the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee, our mobile data communications segment may not be able to generate any meaningful operating income beyond March 31, 2017. Given the various uncertainties related to our BFT-1 sustainment activities and the success of our future business development activities, our operating results in fiscal 2014 and beyond could be more volatile and it could be more difficult in the future to accurately project consolidated gross margins, operating income, net income and earnings per share in any particular future period.23IndexThe outcome of U.S. government investigations are difficult to predict. In June 2012, certain officers and employees of the Company received subpoenas issued by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (“EDNY”) seeking certain documents and records relating to our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Although the EDNY subpoenas make no specific allegations, we believe the subpoenas relate to a grand jury investigation stemming from our CEO's contacts with a scientific attaché to the Israeli Purchasing Mission in the United States who our CEO met in connection with the sale of our equipment to the State of Israel during the 1980's. This scientific attaché was later alleged to have conducted intelligence operations in the U.S. In August 2012, we were informed by the U.S. government that our CEO's security clearance was suspended. In order to maintain our qualification for government contracts requiring facility security clearance, we have made certain internal organizational realignments. These changes restrict access to classified information to other Comtech senior executives, management and other employees who maintain the required level of clearance. Separately, in connection with an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) into trading in securities of CPI International, Inc. (“CPI”), we and our CEO, among others, received subpoenas in 2012 for documents from the SEC concerning transactions in CPI stock by our CEO and other persons (including one subsidiary employee). Our CEO purchased CPI stock in November 2010, after the September 2010 termination of our May 2010 agreement to acquire CPI.We and our CEO have cooperated with the U.S. government regarding the above matters and neither he nor the Company has been contacted by the U.S. government with respect to either matter since September 2012. The independent members of our Board of Directors have monitored these matters with the assistance of independent counsel. The outcome of any investigation is inherently difficult, if not impossible, to predict. However, based on our work to date in respect of the subpoenas in each matter, we do not believe that it is likely that either investigation will result in a legal proceeding against our CEO or the Company. If either of these investigations were to result in a legal proceeding, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our dependence on sales to international customers exposes us to risks, including U.S. export restrictions.Sales for use by international customers (including sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that will be sold to international customers) represented approximately 50.1%, 38.7% and 30.2% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to be a substantial portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. These sales expose us to certain risks, including barriers to trade, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which may make our products less price-competitive), political and economic instability, exposure to public health epidemics, availability of suitable export financing, tariff regulations, and other U.S. and foreign regulations that may apply to the export of our products. Although we take steps to mitigate our risk with respect to international sales, we may not be able to do so in every instance for any of the following reasons, among others: •We may not be able to continue to structure our international contracts to reduce risk – We attempt to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign countries by seeking subcontracts with large systems suppliers, contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, advance or milestone payments and irrevocable letters of credit in our favor. However, we may not be able to reduce the economic risk of doing business in foreign countries in all instances. In such cases, billed and unbilled receivables relating to international sales are subject to increased collectability risk and may result in significant write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, foreign defense contracts generally contain provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the government.•We rely on a limited number of international sales agents – In some countries, we rely upon one or a small number of sales agents, exposing us to risks relating to our contracts with, and related performance of, those agents. We attempt to reduce our risk with respect to sales agents by establishing additional foreign sales offices where it is practical and by engaging, where practicable, more than one independent sales representative in a territory. It is our policy to require all sales agents to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Violations of any of these laws, rules or regulations, and other business practices that are regarded as unethical, could interrupt the sales of our products and services, result in the cancellation of orders or the termination of customer relationships, and could damage our reputation, any of which developments could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations.24Index•We may not be able to obtain export licenses from the U.S. government – Certain of our products and systems may require licenses from U.S. government agencies for export from the U.S., and some of our products are not permitted to be exported. In addition, in certain cases, U.S. export controls also severely limit unlicensed technical discussions, such as discussions with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, in cases where we may need a license, our ability to compete against a non-U.S. domiciled foreign company that may not be subject to the same U.S. laws may be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary export licenses and failure to obtain required licenses would adversely affect our sales outside the U.S.Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, further deterioration of the global economy or if we change our reporting unit structure. As of July 31, 2013, we have goodwill and intangible assets of $169.9 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet of which $125.9 million and $44.0 million relates to our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers segments, respectively.In accordance with FASB ASC 350, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other,” we perform goodwill impairment testing at least annually, unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. The impairment test for goodwill uses a two-step approach. Step one compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value, step two must be performed. Step two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of its goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. For purposes of reviewing impairment and the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets, each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors in determining the fair values of the reporting unit. We perform an annual goodwill impairment review in the first quarter of each fiscal year, unless there are other indicators of impairment. The annual goodwill impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment and is based on how our President and Chief Executive Officer manages the business. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, or if we change our future reporting structure, we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. Based on our fiscal 2014 annual impairment test (performed on August 1, 2013 - the first day of our fiscal 2014), we concluded that the estimated fair value for each of our reporting units was reasonable. However, we concluded that as of August 1, 2013, our RF microwave amplifiers reporting unit was at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. As discussed further in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill", if we do not at least meet the assumed revenue growth utilized in our goodwill impairment analysis, our RF microwave amplifiers reporting unit will likely fail step one of a goodwill impairment test in a future period. Modest changes in key assumptions used in our impairment analysis may also result in the requirement to proceed to step two of the goodwill impairment test in future periods. If we perform a step two test, up to $44.0 million of goodwill and intangibles assigned to this reporting unit could be written off in the period that the impairment is triggered. In addition, if assumed revenue growth for our telecommunications transmission segment is not achieved, this segment could also, in future periods, be at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. It is possible that, during fiscal 2014, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state and our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate. A significant decline in defense spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a step one interim goodwill impairment test during fiscal 2014. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual step one goodwill impairment test on August 1, 2014 (the start of our fiscal 2015). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. Any impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.25IndexWe could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber-attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain customers.We face the risk of a security breach, whether through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion via the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT network and systems have been and, we believe, continue to be constantly under attack. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption to certain of our equipment used on some of our customer's IT networks and related systems which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. Our customers' systems and certain of our equipment are under frequent attack.As a communications company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to certain of our equipment used on some of our customer's IT networks and related systems. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions will not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber-attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and IT networks and related systems could: •Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; •Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; •Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; •Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; •Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and •Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. government) and the public generally. In addition, the cost of continually defending against cyber-attacks and breaches has increased in recent years and future costs and any or all of the foregoing could have a future material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, and threats of war could have a material adverse effect on us.Terrorist attacks, the U.S. and other governments’ responses thereto, and threats of war could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any escalation in these events or similar or future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers.26IndexNoncompliance with numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions (including those pertaining to income taxes) could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations are primarily located in the U.S.; however, we must comply with certain international, as well as domestic, laws, regulations and restrictions. Our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that must comply with various U.S. government regulations, including those of the Federal Communications Commission, as well as similar international laws and regulations. Because the laws and regulations pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following: •We could be disqualified as a supplier to the U.S. government – As a supplier to the U.S. government, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security, contracting practices and classified information. Failure to comply with these regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we would lose most, if not all, of our U.S. government customers and revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly. Among the potential causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The government could investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government could adjust our contract-related costs and fees. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us and, if it were to prevail, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable by us.•Adverse regulatory changes could impair our ability to sell products – Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation and availability of frequency spectrum, and in the military standards and specifications that define the current satellite networking environment, could materially harm our business by: (i) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (ii) making our current products less attractive or obsolete, or (iii) increasing the opportunity for additional competition. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards and reassign bandwidth for these products and services. The reduced number of available frequencies for other products and services and the time delays inherent in the government approval process of new products and services have caused, and may continue to cause, our customers to cancel, postpone or reschedule their installation of communications systems including their satellite, over-the-horizon microwave, or terrestrial line-of-sight microwave communication systems. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of products to our customers. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially harm our business.•We may be subject to environmental liabilities – We engage in manufacturing and are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. We are also subject to the Restriction of Hazardous Substance ("RoHS") directive which restricts the use of lead, mercury and other substances in electrical and electronic products. The failure to comply with current or future environmental requirements could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the handling, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances by us or our predecessors may have resulted, or could in the future result, in contamination requiring investigation or remediation, or leading to other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Tax audits could result in a material tax assessment – Our U.S. federal, state and foreign tax returns are subject to audit and a resulting tax assessment or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The final determination of tax examinations and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2010 through 2013 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit. Although adjustments relating to past audits of our federal tax returns were immaterial, a resulting tax assessment or settlement for other periods or other jurisdictions that may be selected for future audit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.27IndexAll of our business activities are subject to rapid technological change requiring us to continuously develop technology and/or obtain licensed technology in order to compete successfully.We are engaged in business activities characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product announcements and enhancements, and changing customer demands. The introduction of products and services on future industry standards embodying new technologies such as TDMA-based technologies and the emergence of industry standards such as WiMAX could render any of our products and services obsolete or non-competitive.The technology used in our products and services evolves rapidly, and our business position depends, in large part, on the continuous refinement of our scientific and engineering expertise and the development, either through internal research and development or acquisitions of businesses or licenses, of new or enhanced products and technologies. We may not have the financial or technological resources to be successful in such efforts and we may not be able to identify and respond to technological improvements made by our competitors in a timely or cost-effective fashion. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third party that maintains patents associated with the technology. A significant technological breakthrough by others, including smaller competitors or new firms, or an unsuccessful outcome of defending our rights to licensed technologies, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Ongoing compliance with the provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards could unexpectedly materially increase our costs and compliance related expenses.Because we are a publicly traded company, we are required to comply with provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards. Because securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following:•If we identify a material weakness in the future, our costs will unexpectedly increase – Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to attest to and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.•Stock-based compensation accounting standards could negatively impact our stock – Since our inception, we have used stock-based awards as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock-based awards directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. Since fiscal 2006, we have applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” which requires us to record compensation expense in our statement of operations for employee and director stock-based awards using a fair value method. The adoption of the standard had a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the value of stock-based awards. The ongoing application of this standard could impact the future value of our common stock and may result in greater stock price volatility. To the extent that this accounting standard makes it less attractive to grant stock-based awards to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.28Index•Changes in securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards are increasing our costs – The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. These changes have resulted in increased costs. The SEC has promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement to use the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language (commonly referred to as “XBRL”) in our financial statements, which we began including in our quarterly reports filed with the SEC in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). We may have to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs to comply with IFRS requirements. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) has revised its requirements for companies, such as us, that are listed on NASDAQ. These changes are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs, including making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance or maintain our current liability coverage. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee, and qualified executive officers.•We may incur additional expenses associated with complying with SEC rules and reporting requirements related to Conflict Minerals – In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding a public company's use of Conflict Minerals procured from Covered Countries (as both of those terms are defined by the SEC). These new SEC rules and reporting requirements have resulted in us incurring additional costs to document and perform supplier due diligence. As these rules will likely impact our suppliers, the availability of raw materials used in our operations could be negatively impacted and/or raw material prices could increase.We could be adversely affected if we violate International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”).In the past, we have self-reported violations of ITAR to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (“DDTC”) of the U.S. Department of State and had an ITAR compliance audit performed by an independent auditor at the request of the DDTC. Although the audit found no violations of ITAR, we committed to the DDTC that we would enhance certain policies and procedures and we have established a company-wide Office of Trade Compliance. We continue to implement policies and procedures to ensure that we comply with ITAR and related regulations. We may be subjected to ITAR compliance audits in the future that may uncover improper or illegal activities that would subject us to material remediation costs, civil and criminal fines and/or penalties and/or an injunction. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these outcomes could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We have significant operations in Arizona, Florida, California and other locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our telecommunications transmission segment designs and manufactures our over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred in the past. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment manufactures and designs traveling wave tube amplifiers in Santa Clara, California, close to major earthquake fault lines, and also manufactures amplifiers in Melville, New York, an area subject to hurricanes.Our operations in these and other locations (such as in our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona and our mobile data communication segment’s network operations center located in Germantown, Maryland), could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and man-made disasters or disruptions.In the event of any such disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.29IndexOur dependence on component availability, government furnished equipment, subcontractors and key suppliers, including the core manufacturing expertise of our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, exposes us to risk. Although we obtain certain components and subsystems from a single source or a limited number of sources, we believe that most components and subsystems are available from alternative suppliers and subcontractors. A significant interruption in the delivery of such items, however, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our telecommunications transmission segment operates our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona which has been utilized, at one time or another, by all three of our business segments and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party commercial customers, including prime contractors to the U.S. government, who have outsourced a portion of their manufacturing to us. This allows us to secure volume discounts on key components, better control the quality of our manufacturing process and maximize the utilization of our manufacturing capacity. Intersegment sales in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 by the telecommunications transmission segment to the RF microwave amplifiers segment were $2.3 million, $5.4 million and $3.8 million, respectively. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, intersegment sales by the telecommunications transmission segment to the mobile data communications segment were $2.7 million, $11.2 million and $37.0 million, respectively. We intend to maximize the use of our high-volume technology manufacturing center by continuing to seek contracts with third parties to outsource a portion of their manufacturing to us. If a natural disaster or other business interruption occurred with respect to our high-volume technology manufacturing center, we do not have immediate access to other manufacturing facilities and, as a result, our business would suffer. In addition, if our high-volume technology manufacturing center is unable to produce sufficient product or maintain quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in a decline in sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. We currently have a backlog of orders, mostly under contracts that our customers may modify or terminate. Almost all of the contracts in our backlog (including firm orders previously received from the U.S. government) are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the customer or for default in the event that we are unable to perform under the contract. We can give no assurance that our backlog will result in net sales. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors, including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If orders in our backlog are canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charges could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial condition.Contract cost growth on our fixed price contracts and cost reimbursable type contracts and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business and other risks. A substantial portion of our products and services are sold under fixed price contracts. This means that we bear the risk of unanticipated technological, manufacturing, supply or other problems, price increases or other increases in the cost of performance. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to the customer are incurred. This cost growth can occur if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect, or if estimates to complete increase. To a lesser extent, we provide products and services under cost reimbursable type contracts which carry the entire burden of costs exceeding a negotiated contract ceiling price. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.30IndexWe face a number of risks relating to the expected long-term growth of our business. Our business and operating results may be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage this growth.These risks include:•The loss of key technical or management personnel could adversely affect our business – Our future success depends on the continued contributions of key technical management personnel, including the key corporate and operating unit management at each of our subsidiaries. Many of our key personnel, particularly the key engineers at our subsidiaries, would be difficult to replace, and are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. Our expected long-term growth and future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations is intense. Although we believe that we have been successful to date in recruiting and retaining key personnel, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we will need to grow and operate profitably. Also, the management skills that have been appropriate for us in the past may not continue to be appropriate if we grow and diversify.•We may not be able to improve our processes and systems to keep pace with anticipated growth – Certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. We also need to continue to recruit and retain personnel and train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. If we are not able to timely and effectively manage our growth and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Our markets are highly competitive and there can be no assurance that we can continue our success – The markets for our products are highly competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that our competitors will not develop new technologies and products that are more effective than our own. We expect the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will encourage new competitors to enter the market. Also, although the implementation of advanced telecommunications services is in its early stages in many developing countries, we believe competition will continue to intensify as businesses and foreign governments realize the market potential of telecommunications services. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution resources greater than ours.Future acquisitions and investments may divert our resources and management attention, and the benefits from such acquisitions and investments may fall short of expectations.We intend to continue pursuing acquisitions or investments in businesses, technologies and product lines. Future acquisitions or investments may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, increases to amortization expenses and the future write-off of intangibles acquired. Such acquisitions or investments may also conflict with our $100.0 million secured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”), thereby limiting our ability to draw on the Credit Facility or requiring us to repay the Credit Facility. Acquisitions involve other operational risks, including:•difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business, including the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business;•diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and•increased expenses associated with acquired businesses including managing the growth of such businesses.There can be no assurance that our future acquisitions and investments will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.31IndexOur secured revolving credit facility contains restrictions that could limit our ability to implement our business plan.We have a committed $100.0 million, secured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of bank lenders that expires on April 30, 2014 but may be extended by us to December 31, 2016, subject to certain conditions. The Credit Facility contains certain covenants, including covenants limiting certain debt, certain liens on assets, certain sales of assets and receivables, certain payments (including dividends), certain repurchases of equity securities, certain sale and leaseback transactions, certain guaranties and certain investments. The Credit Facility also contains financial condition covenants requiring that we: (i) not exceed a maximum ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (each as defined in the Credit Facility); (ii) not exceed a maximum ratio of consolidated senior secured indebtedness to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (each as defined in the Credit Facility); (iii) maintain a minimum fixed charge ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility); (iv) maintain a minimum consolidated net worth; in each case measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter, and (v) in the event total consolidated indebtedness (as defined in the Credit Facility) is less than $200.0 million, we maintain a minimum level of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility). Our Credit Facility also contains certain events of default, including: failure to make payments, failure to perform or observe terms, or a change of control (as defined in the agreement). If an event of default occurs, the lenders may, among other things, terminate their commitments and declare all outstanding borrowings, if any, to be immediately due and payable together with accrued interest and fees. These restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in certain strategic transactions. In addition, if we fail to meet the covenants contained in our Credit Facility, our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility may be restricted.If we have significant borrowings under the agreement and we violate a covenant or an event of default occurs and the lenders accelerate the maturity of any outstanding borrowings and terminate their commitment to make future loans, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, an event of default under our Credit Facility could constitute an event of default under our 3.0% senior convertible notes, requiring us to repay the outstanding principal amount of the notes and accrued and unpaid interest on the notes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants or that any covenant violations will be waived. In addition, if we fail to comply with our financial or other covenants, we may need additional financing in order to service or extinguish our indebtedness. In the future, we may not be able to obtain financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, if at all.If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at the annual targeted level, our reputation and stock price may be harmed.In September 2011, our Board of Directors approved an annual targeted dividend of $1.10 per common share. We have paid quarterly dividends for twelve consecutive quarters and, in fiscal 2013, we paid $18.9 million of cash dividends to our shareholders.Our dividend program requires the use of a portion of our cash flow. Our ability to continue to pay quarterly dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the targeted annual dividend amount or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.Protection of our intellectual property is limited and we are subject to the risk that third parties may claim our products or systems infringe their intellectual property rights. Our businesses rely, in large part, upon our proprietary scientific and engineering know-how and production techniques. Historically, patents have not been an important part of the protection of our intellectual property rights as competitors routinely develop similar but non-infringing products. We rely upon the laws of unfair competition and restrictions in licensing agreements and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property.The departure of any of our key management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.32IndexFrom time to time, we receive correspondence alleging that a product or other part of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. We believe that we own or have licensed all intellectual property rights necessary for the operation of our businesses as currently conducted.If any technology we use is found to infringe on protected technology, we could be required to change our business practices, license the protected technology, and/or pay damages or other compensation to the infringed party and/or our customers who have incorporated our products into their systems or businesses. If we are unable to license protected technology that we use in our business or if we are required to change our business practices, we could be prohibited from making and selling some of our products or providing certain telecommunications services. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Comtech. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition involving Comtech that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, we have a classified board and the employment contract with our chief executive officer and agreements with other of our executive officers provide for substantial payments in certain circumstances or in the event of a change of control of Comtech. In the future, we may adopt a stockholder rights plan which could cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, this statute provides that, except in certain limited circumstances, a corporation shall not engage in any “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner.A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Comtech.Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.Our 3.0% convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances (such as the declaration of cash dividends on our common stock) and contain certain restrictions and covenants. We can provide no assurances that we will not default on these or other debt obligations. We may, at our option, redeem some or all of the 3.0% convertible senior notes on or after May 5, 2014. Holders of the 3.0% convertible senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding 3.0% convertible senior notes, solely for cash, on May 1, 2014, May 1, 2019 and May 1, 2024 and upon certain events, including a change in control. Accordingly, we may be required to repurchase the $200.0 million of 3.0% convertible senior notes on May 1, 2014, which is in our fiscal 2014. If not redeemed by us or repaid pursuant to the holders’ right to require repurchase, the 3.0% convertible senior notes mature on May 1, 2029. If the holders of our 3.0% convertible senior notes require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding notes that they own, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the 3.0% convertible senior notes or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance them. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt; make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 33IndexOur stock price is volatile.The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology-based companies, in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future as well. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock are described throughout the Risk Factors section and include, among others:•strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestures;•issuance of potentially dilutive equity or equity-type securities;•future announcements concerning us or our competitors;•receipt or non-receipt of substantial orders for products and services;•quality deficiencies in services or products;•results of technological innovations;•new commercial products;•changes in recommendations of securities analysts;•government regulations;•changes in the status or outcome of government audits;•proprietary rights or product or patent litigation;•changes in U.S. government policies;•changes related to ongoing military conflicts;•changes in economic conditions generally, particularly in the telecommunications sector;•changes in securities market conditions, generally;•changes in the status of litigation and legal matters (including changes in the status of export matters);•changes in the status of U.S. government investigations relating to our CEO;•cyber-attacks;•energy blackouts;•acts of terrorism or war;•inflation or deflation; and•rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices.Shortfalls in our sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.34Index