ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSForward-Looking StatementsThis Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, product development, business strategy, continued acceptance of our products, market growth, and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” the negative of these terms, or other similar words or comparable terminology. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. However, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our business outlook, actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement.Our decision to explore strategic alternatives may not result in an action or transaction and may be disruptive to our business operations.In August 2014, we confirmed, in response to media reports, that our Board of Directors is exploring strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, including a possible merger or sale of the Company. There can be no assurance that any transaction or other strategic change will occur as a result of the current exploration of alternatives or that any transaction or strategic change, if completed, will be successful or on attractive terms. In addition, the exploration of strategic alternatives could result in: (i) us incurring expenses without realizing any benefit; (ii) the diversion of management's attention and resources away from our ongoing businesses; (iii) the loss of key employees and engineering talent; and (iv) loss of confidence by current and potential customers in the future of our business, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, business outlook, results of operations and financial condition.The continued effects of the adverse global economic climate and volatile political conditions have had and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our business outlook, our business, operating results and financial condition.We participate in the global commercial and government communications markets, which are characterized by rapid technological advances and constant changes. For the past several years, our customers and the end-markets that we serve have been materially impacted by adverse global economic conditions. These conditions have resulted in: (i) changes to our commercial and government customers’ historical spending priorities, (ii) reduced military budgets, and (iii) extreme pressures on government budgets throughout the world. In addition to operating in a difficult global economic environment, some of our end customers are located in emerging countries that have and continue to undergo sweeping political changes. Political conditions around the world are unstable and current and potential future economic sanctions could be imposed on some of our end-customers (such as Russia) which could adversely impact our sales. Global international monetary issues and concerns continue to be unsettled and it remains possible that another worldwide credit crisis could occur. We believe that the aggregation of these conditions has resulted in the ongoing suppression of end-market demand for many of the products that we sell and services that we provide. Although we achieved revenue growth in fiscal 2014 and expect to continue to grow in fiscal 2015, we believe that nearly all of our customers are challenged by capital and operating budget constraints and a difficult credit environment. As such, the impact, severity and duration of these conditions are impossible to predict with precision. Many of our international customers (including our Middle Eastern and African customers) rely on European bank financing to procure funding for large systems, many of which include our equipment. We believe that European financing has been and continues to be difficult to obtain. If interest rates remain low or turn negative (as has occurred in some European countries), our customers may become reluctant to spend funds required to purchase our equipment. In addition, if worldwide interest rates increase, it is possible that new projects to install or upgrade telecommunications networks that are currently being contemplated by our customers, particularly in emerging markets which generally receive financing from European banks and/or financial assistance from various governments, will be postponed or canceled.19None of our three operating segments have been immune to these adverse conditions and each continues to face an uncertain economic environment. These adverse conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our businesses in a number of ways, including:•Difficulty in forecasting our results of operations – It is difficult to accurately forecast our results of operations as we cannot predict the severity, or the duration, of the current adverse economic environment or the impact it will have on our current and prospective customers. If our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we anticipate, our business outlook will prove to be inaccurate. •Additional reductions in telecommunications equipment and systems spending may occur – Although we achieved overall consolidated revenue growth in fiscal 2014, our businesses have been negatively affected, both currently and in the past, by uncertain economic environments both in the overall market and, more specifically, in the telecommunications sector. Our customers have reduced their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems and in some cases postponed or reduced the purchase of our products and systems. As a result of the ongoing difficult global economic environment, our customers may reduce their spending on telecommunications equipment and systems which would negatively impact all three of our business segments. If this occurs, it would adversely affect our business outlook, revenues, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill.•Our customers may not be able to obtain financing – Although many of our products are relatively inexpensive when compared to the total systems or networks that they are incorporated into, our sales are affected by our customers’ ability to obtain the sufficient financing they may require to build out their networks, fund operations and ultimately make purchases from us. Many of our emerging market customers obtain financing for network build outs from large European commercial banks and/or financial assistance from various governments. Our customers’ inability to obtain sufficient financing would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, if the current economic environment and lack of financing results in insolvencies for our customers, it would adversely impact the recoverability of our accounts receivable which would, in turn, adversely impact our results of operations.•Our ability to maintain affordable credit insurance may become more difficult – In the normal course of our business, we purchase credit insurance to mitigate some of our domestic and international credit risk. Although credit insurance remains generally available, upon renewal, it may become more expensive to obtain and might require higher deductibles than in the past. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to obtain adequate credit insurance consistent with our past practices.Our fiscal 2015 business outlook and operating results are difficult to forecast, as operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and are likely to be volatile.We have experienced, and will experience in the future, significant fluctuations in new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share from period-to-period. For instance, a large portion of our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers segments’ net sales are derived from products such as satellite earth station equipment and satellite earth station traveling wave tube amplifiers, respectively, that generally have short lead times. As a result, bookings and backlog related to these products are extremely sensitive to short-term fluctuations in customer demand. The remaining portion of our telecommunications transmission and our RF microwave amplifiers segments’ net sales are generally derived from large contracts or military program opportunities that are subject to lengthy sales cycles and therefore difficult to predict. Our new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, may vary significantly from period-to-period because of other factors including: sales mix; fluctuating market demand; price competition; new product introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in the timing of delivery of components or subsystems; the financial performance of acquisitions; new accounting standards relating to acquisitions and revenue recognition; political instability; regulatory developments; changes in income tax rates or tax credits; the price and expected volatility of our stock (which will impact, among other items, the amount of stock-based compensation expense we may record); and general global economic conditions.20Our mobile data communications segment's future business outlook is dependent on the U.S. Army's funding decisions and the renewal of our BFT-1 contracts and we may not be able to maintain our expected levels of mobile data communications segment revenues in future years.Our mobile data communications segment's revenue and operating income through March 2017 is expected to be largely driven by the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee for our BFT-1 technology. As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we are currently providing BFT-1 sustainment support to the U.S. Army pursuant to two three-year contracts aggregating $68.2 million. The first contract has a not to exceed value of $38.2 million under which we provide engineering services and satellite network operations on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis, and program management services on a firm-fixed-price basis and the second contract is in the form of an intellectual property license agreement with a potential value of $30.0 million. Both contracts cover a base period that expires March 31, 2015 with two twelve-month option periods exercisable by the U.S. Army. During fiscal 2014, the U.S. Army funded orders of $17.5 million under these two contracts (including the $10.0 million annual intellectual property license fee for the performance period from April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015) and during the first quarter of our fiscal 2015, the U.S. Army funded an incremental $6.1 million to complete the funding for the base year of these contracts. If the U.S. Army pays an aggregate of $30.0 million of annual intellectual property license fees, the U.S. Army will receive a limited non-exclusive right to use our intellectual property after March 31, 2017 for no additional license fee. Given current U.S. government budget pressures and the unknown timing of the U.S. Army's roll-out of the next generation BFT system, it is possible that the U.S. Army will not fund any additional amounts or exercise the twelve-month option periods on one or both of our contracts and we may not generate any additional revenue or operating income associated with BFT-1 sustainment services (including the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee) beyond March 31, 2015. Although we expect that our BFT-1 contract will be renewed, extended or replaced, the amount of future operating income associated with BFT-1 sustainment activities may, in the future, be significantly lower. If the U.S. Army does not exercise its option to renew the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee, it would have a material adverse effect on our fiscal 2015 business outlook, our future business outlook and our future operating results. Even if the U.S. Army exercises the two twelve-month option periods for the intellectual property license agreement, no further extensions, renewals or replacements of that agreement will occur, as the U.S. Army will be entitled to use our intellectual property for no additional fee. We intend to focus future business development activities in our mobile data communications segment on our current BFT-1 customer and certain foreign military organizations. We believe that by seeking to work collaboratively with the U.S. Army to ensure that its short-term and long-term needs are addressed, we will enhance our competitive positioning for potential new awards and programs in the future. In addition, we intend to seek out opportunities to export our commercial line of satellite transceivers to certain countries and expand our business on an appropriate regional basis. We also expect to continue to offer our customers niche products. If we are ultimately unable to significantly increase sales of our current products, develop and sell new products or services, win new programs or replace the operating income contribution of the annual $10.0 million intellectual property license fee, our mobile data communications segment may not be able to generate any meaningful operating income beyond March 31, 2017. Given the various uncertainties related to our BFT-1 sustainment activities and the success of our future business development activities, our operating results in fiscal 2015 and beyond could be more volatile and it could be more difficult in the future to accurately project consolidated gross margins, operating income, net income and earnings per share in any particular future period.Reductions in spending or changes in spending priorities that reduce the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) budget and the U.S. government's debt could have a material adverse effect on us including negatively impacting our fiscal 2015 business outlook. During our fiscal years ended July 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, sales to the U.S. government (including sales to prime contractors to the U.S. government) were $97.3 million, $110.9 million and $207.8 million or 28.0%, 34.7% and 48.9%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Approximately 25.0% of our backlog at July 31, 2014 consisted of orders related to U.S. government contracts and our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015 and beyond depends, in part, on receiving new orders from the U.S. government, which is currently under extreme budget pressures.Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations and failure of Congress to appropriate funds, delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, U.S. government programs which we participate in, could negatively affect our results of operations. Because many of the items we sell to the U.S. government are included in large programs, it is difficult, if not impossible, to determine specific amounts that are or will be appropriated for our products and services. As such, certain assessments relating to the impact of changes in U.S. government spending may prove to be incorrect. 21The impact of a legislation process known as sequestration (or mandated reductions) remains a significant risk. Part I of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Control Act) provided for a reduction in planned defense budgets by at least $487 billion over a ten year period. A two-year budget agreement set forth in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 lessened the across-the-board cuts of sequestration; however, sequestration continues to be in effect, including for the U.S. Department of Defense. The two-year budget agreement reduced the $52.0 billion of cuts in expenditures that the U.S. Department of Defense was required to make in 2014 by $21.0 billion, which translates to a 1.2% reduction compared to 2013, as compared to the originally required 6% reduction. Planned cuts in expenditures for 2015 were reduced by $10.0 billion. Although there is a general sense that defense spending levels are stabilizing, the U.S. government’s budget for fiscal 2015 has not yet been approved, it continues to be hotly debated, and sequestration may ultimately occur. Sequestration has already negatively affected some of the defense programs in which we participate and we expect to continue to be negatively impacted by the continuing effects of sequestration or other defense spending delays and cuts. In addition, it is possible that the U.S. government could reduce or further delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, other government programs and it remains difficult, if not impossible, to determine specific amounts that are or will be appropriated for many of the programs in which we participate and our assessment may prove to be incorrect.The failure of Congress to approve future budgets and/or increase the United States' debt ceiling on a timely basis could delay or result in the loss of contracts for the procurement of our products and services and we may be asked or required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. government contracts, even if the U.S. government is unable to make timely payments. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how budget reductions will be applied and what challenges the reductions will present. We believe that despite budget pressures, spending on the modernization and maintenance of advanced communications systems that include our products and services will continue to be a national priority. Future defense spending is expected to include the development and procurement of new manned and unmanned military platforms and systems, along with advanced electronics and software to enhance the capabilities of existing systems and provide real-time integration of surveillance, information management, strike and battle management platforms. Our products and services are used in various programs involving command and control, network communications, enhanced situational awareness, satellite systems and restricted programs as well as numerous international and homeland security programs. Although the types of communications products and services we offer appear to be a funding priority over the long-term, a significant decline in defense spending or a shift in funding priorities may have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows depending on the platforms and programs affected by such budget reductions or shifts in funding priorities. We continue to see long sales cycles and order delays from the U.S. government and it is possible that these long sales cycles and delays will continue for a prolonged period. Ultimately the U.S. government may be unable to timely complete its budget process or fully agree upon spending priorities. If the U.S. government budget process results in a prolonged shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, we may experience further delayed orders, delayed payments, declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows. We may experience related supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. All of the aforementioned conditions could have a material adverse effect on our fiscal 2015 business and financial outlook, our operating results and our financial condition.Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique business and commercial risks.Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique business and commercial risks, including:•unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions;•unpredictable order placements, reductions, delays or cancellations;•higher than expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; and•unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close out procedures, including government audit and approval of final indirect rates.22All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government for its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or costs committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. In addition to the U.S. government’s right to terminate, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary funding. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract may not be fully funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract only if, and when, appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of awards or lead to changes in program content. We obtain certain of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win additional contracts or that actual contracts that are awarded will ultimately be profitable.Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audit by various agencies and the outcome of audits is difficult to predict. All of our U.S. government contracts, such as our Advanced Time Division Multiple Access ("TDMA") Interface Processor ("ATIP") contract with the U.S. Navy with a potential value of $29.8 million, can be audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”) and other U.S. government agencies and we can be subject to penalties arising from post-award contract audits (sometimes referred to as a Truth in Negotiations Act or “TINA” audit) or cost audits in which the value of our contracts may be reduced. If costs are found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract, those costs will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed would be required to be refunded. Although we record contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit, we cannot predict the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.As discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (14)(b) Legal Proceedings and Other Matters” included in “Part II - Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in May 2011, we were notified that our original BFT-1 contract, which was awarded to us on August 31, 2007 (our fiscal 2008), was selected for a post-award audit by the DCAA. We received total funded orders against this contract, which expired December 31, 2011, of $376.3 million. A post-award audit, or TINA audit, generally focuses on whether the contractor disclosed current, accurate and complete cost or pricing data in the contract negotiation process pursuant to TINA and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”). We fully cooperated with the DCAA and Defense Contract Management Agency (“DCMA”) and provided them information that supported our view that the August 2007 BFT-1 contract was subject to a Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS") and TINA exemption for fixed price commercial contract line items (such as our mobile satellite transceivers and other hardware), as defined by the FAR. In May 2013, we were informed that the DCAA recommended a price adjustment of $11.8 million (plus interest); however, in March 2014, we were notified by a Branch Chief and Contracting Officer that the U.S. Army reviewed the information we provided as well as information provided by DCAA, federal regulations, and contract file documentation and came to the conclusion that the cost or pricing data provided was not deemed to be defective. Nevertheless, the Contracting Officer requested we provide the U.S. government a voluntary refund equal to the DCAA's recommended price adjustment because the U.S. Army believes that certain costs we provided during negotiations were overstated. In May 2014, we notified the Contracting Officer that we disagreed with the Contracting Officer’s assertion that the cost data provided was in any way overstated, and we respectfully declined to provide a voluntary refund. Although we consider the matter closed, it is possible that the U.S. Army may pursue a claim, and we could be required to refund monies to the U.S. government, with interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, future audits on other contracts may result in proposed adjustments that ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations and financial condition. 23The outcome of U.S. government investigations are difficult to predict. In June 2012, certain officers and employees of the Company received subpoenas issued by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (“EDNY”) seeking certain documents and records relating to our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Although the EDNY subpoenas made no specific allegations, we believe the subpoenas related to a grand jury investigation stemming from our CEO's contacts with a scientific attaché to the Israeli Purchasing Mission in the United States who our CEO met in connection with the sale of our equipment to the State of Israel during the 1980's. This scientific attaché was later alleged to have conducted intelligence operations in the U.S. In August 2012, we were informed by the U.S. government that our CEO's security clearance was suspended. In order to maintain our qualification for government contracts requiring facility security clearance, at that time, we made certain internal organizational realignments that have remained in place. Those changes restrict access to classified information to other Comtech senior executives, management and other employees who maintain the required level of clearance. Separately, in connection with an investigation by the SEC into trading in securities of CPI International, Inc. (“CPI”), we and our CEO, among others, received subpoenas in 2012 from the SEC for documents concerning transactions in CPI stock by our CEO and other persons (including one subsidiary employee). Our CEO purchased CPI stock in November 2010, after the September 2010 termination of our May 2010 agreement to acquire CPI. The independent members of our Board of Directors have monitored these matters with the assistance of independent counsel.We and our CEO cooperated with the U.S. government regarding the above matters and neither he nor the Company has been contacted by the U.S. government with respect to either matter since September 2012. Although the status or outcome of any government investigation is inherently difficult, if not impossible, to predict, based on our work in respect of the subpoenas in each matter, we do not believe that it is likely that either matter will result in a legal proceeding against our CEO or the Company. If either matter were to result in a legal proceeding, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our dependence on sales to international customers exposes us to risks, including U.S. export restrictions.Sales for use by international customers (including sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that will be sold to international customers) represented approximately 59.4%, 50.1% and 38.7% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to be a substantial portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. These sales expose us to certain risks, including barriers to trade, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which may make our products less price-competitive), political and economic instability, exposure to public health epidemics, availability of suitable export financing, tariff regulations, and other U.S. and foreign regulations that may apply to the export of our products. Although we take steps to mitigate our risk with respect to international sales, we may not be able to do so in every instance for any of the following reasons, among others: •We may not be able to continue to structure our international contracts to reduce risk – We attempt to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign countries by seeking subcontracts with large systems suppliers, contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, advance or milestone payments and irrevocable letters of credit in our favor. However, we may not be able to reduce the economic risk of doing business in foreign countries in all instances. In such cases, billed and unbilled receivables relating to international sales are subject to increased collectability risk and may result in significant write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, foreign defense contracts generally contain provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the government.•We rely on a limited number of international sales agents – In some countries, we rely upon one or a small number of sales agents, exposing us to risks relating to our contracts with, and related performance of, those agents. We attempt to reduce our risk with respect to sales agents by establishing additional foreign sales offices where it is practical and by engaging, where practicable, more than one independent sales representative in a territory. It is our policy to require all sales agents to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Violations of any of these laws, rules or regulations, and other business practices that are regarded as unethical, could interrupt the sales of our products and services, result in the cancellation of orders or the termination of customer relationships, and could damage our reputation, any of which developments could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations.•We may not be able to obtain export licenses from the U.S. government – Certain of our products and systems may require licenses from U.S. government agencies for export from the U.S., and some of our products are not permitted to be exported. In addition, in certain cases, U.S. export controls also severely limit unlicensed technical discussions, such as discussions with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, in cases where we may need a license, our ability to compete against a non-U.S. domiciled foreign company that may not be subject to the same U.S. laws may be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary export licenses and failure to obtain required licenses would adversely affect our sales outside the U.S.24Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, further deterioration of the global economy or if we change our reporting unit structure. As of July 31, 2014, we have goodwill and intangible assets of $163.6 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet of which $122.1 million and $41.5 million relates to our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers segments, respectively.In accordance with FASB ASC 350, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other,” we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. On August 1, 2014 (the first day of our fiscal 2015), pursuant to the accounting standards update, we performed a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as a "Step 0" test) to determine if it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we evaluated overall business and overall macroeconomic conditions since the date of our last quantitative assessment, which was on August 1, 2013. We considered in our qualitative assessment, among other things, expectations of projected revenues and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in market multiples, changes in our stock price, changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill, and overall global industry and market conditions. Based upon this evaluation, we concluded that our goodwill was not likely impaired and we did not perform a quantitative Step One assessment. In the future, we will either perform a qualitative Step 0 assessment or a quantitative Step One assessment. A quantitative Step One assessment involves determining the fair value of each reporting unit using market participant assumptions. If we believe that the carrying value of a reporting unit with goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, we will perform a quantitative Step Two impairment assessment. Step Two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.For purposes of reviewing impairment and the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets, each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors in determining the fair values of the reporting unit. The annual goodwill impairment assessment is based on several factors requiring judgment and is based on how our President and Chief Executive Officer manages the business. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, or if we change our future reporting unit structure, we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. If assumed revenue growth is not achieved in future periods, our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers reporting units could be at risk of failing Step One of the goodwill impairment test and goodwill and intangibles assigned to the respective reporting units could be written off. It is possible that, during fiscal 2015, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state and our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate. A significant decline in defense spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a Step One interim goodwill impairment test during fiscal 2015. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2015 (the start of our fiscal 2016). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber-attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain customers.We face the risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems, whether through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion via the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT network and systems have been and, we believe, continue to be under constant attack. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption to certain of our equipment used on some of our customer's IT networks and related systems which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. Our customers' systems and certain of our equipment are under frequent attack.25As a communications company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to certain of our equipment used on some of our customer's IT networks and related systems. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions will not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber-attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and IT networks and related systems could: •Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; •Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; •Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions; •Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; •Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and •Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. government) and the public generally. In addition, the cost of continually defending against cyber-attacks and breaches has increased in recent years and future costs and any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, and threats of war could have a material adverse effect on us.Terrorist attacks, the U.S. and other governments’ responses thereto, and threats of war could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any escalation in these events or similar or future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers.Noncompliance with numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions (including those pertaining to income taxes) could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations are primarily located in the U.S.; however, we must comply with certain international, as well as domestic, laws, regulations and restrictions. Our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that must comply with various U.S. government regulations, including those of the Federal Communications Commission, as well as similar international laws and regulations. Because the laws and regulations pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following: •We could be disqualified as a supplier to the U.S. government – As a supplier to the U.S. government, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security, contracting practices and classified information. Failure to comply with these regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we would lose most, if not all, of our U.S. government customers and revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly. Among the potential causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 26The government could investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government could adjust our contract-related costs and fees. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us and, if it were to prevail, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable by us.•Adverse regulatory changes could impair our ability to sell products – Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation and availability of frequency spectrum, and in the military standards and specifications that define the current satellite networking environment, could materially harm our business by: (i) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (ii) making our current products less attractive or obsolete, or (iii) increasing the opportunity for additional competition. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards and reassign bandwidth for these products and services. The reduced number of available frequencies for other products and services and the time delays inherent in the government approval process of new products and services have caused, and may continue to cause, our customers to cancel, postpone or reschedule their installation of communications systems including their satellite, over-the-horizon microwave, or terrestrial line-of-sight microwave communication systems. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of products to our customers. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially harm our business.•We may be subject to environmental liabilities – We engage in manufacturing and are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. We are also subject to the Restriction of Hazardous Substance ("RoHS") directive which restricts the use of lead, mercury and other substances in electrical and electronic products. The failure to comply with current or future environmental requirements could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the handling, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances by us or our predecessors may have resulted, or could in the future result, in contamination requiring investigation or remediation, or leading to other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Tax audits could result in a material tax assessment – Our U.S. federal, state and foreign tax returns are subject to audit and a resulting tax assessment or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The final determination of tax examinations and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2011 through 2013 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audits. Although adjustments relating to past audits of our federal tax returns were immaterial, a resulting tax assessment or settlement for other periods or other jurisdictions that may be selected for future audit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.All of our business activities are subject to rapid technological change requiring us to continuously develop technology and/or obtain licensed technology in order to compete successfully.We are engaged in business activities characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product announcements and enhancements, and changing customer demands. The introduction of products and services on future industry standards embodying new technologies such as TDMA-based technologies could render any of our products and services obsolete or non-competitive.The technology used in our products and services evolves rapidly, and our business position depends, in large part, on the continuous refinement of our scientific and engineering expertise and the development, either through internal research and development or acquisitions of businesses or licenses, of new or enhanced products and technologies. We may not have the financial or technological resources to be successful in such efforts and we may not be able to identify and respond to technological improvements made by our competitors in a timely or cost-effective fashion. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our products, systems, services or technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of our products, systems, services or technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products, systems, services or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our products, systems, services or technologies, or that our competitors will not develop new products, systems, services or technologies that cause our existing products, systems, services or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 27Our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third party that maintains patents associated with the technology. Other competitors have developed similar technologies and some may have also licensed parts or all of this compression technology. Although competition for customers who will benefit from deployment of such technology has increased, we have a large installed base of customers who require backward compatibility and we have and continue to integrate this technology into a number of our satellite earth station products. Ultimately, we believe that demand for this product will increase from current levels.A significant technological or sales breakthrough by others, including smaller competitors or new firms, or an unsuccessful outcome of defending our rights to licensed technologies, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Ongoing compliance with the provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards could unexpectedly materially increase our costs and compliance related expenses.Because we are a publicly traded company, we are required to comply with provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards. Because securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following:•If we identify a material weakness in the future, our costs will unexpectedly increase – Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to attest to and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.•Stock-based compensation accounting standards could negatively impact our stock – Since our inception, we have used stock-based awards as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock-based awards directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. Since fiscal 2006, we have applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” which requires us to record compensation expense in our statement of operations for employee and director stock-based awards using a fair value method. The adoption of the standard had a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the value of stock-based awards (including long-term performance shares which are subject to the achievement of three-year goals which are based on several performance metrics). The ongoing application of this standard could impact the future value of our common stock and may result in greater stock price volatility. To the extent that this accounting standard makes it less attractive to grant stock-based awards to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Changes in securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards are increasing our costs – The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. These changes have resulted in increased costs. The SEC has promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement to use the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language (commonly referred to as “XBRL”) in our financial statements, which we began including in our quarterly reports filed with the SEC in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules establishing additional disclosure, supply chain verification and reporting requirements regarding a public company's use of Conflict Minerals procured from Covered Countries (as both of those terms are defined by the SEC). These SEC rules and reporting requirements have resulted in us incurring additional costs to document and perform supplier due diligence. As these rules impact our suppliers, the availability of raw materials used in our operations could be negatively impacted and/or raw material prices could increase. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage and could harm our reputation.28Our costs to comply with the aforementioned and other regulations continue to increase and we may have to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs to comply with ongoing or future requirements. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) routinely changes its requirements for companies, such as us, that are listed on NASDAQ. These changes (and potential future changes) have (and may) increase our legal and financial compliance costs, including making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance or maintain our current liability coverage. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee, and qualified executive officers.We could be adversely affected if we violate International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”).In the past, we have self-reported violations of ITAR to the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) and had an ITAR compliance audit performed by an independent auditor at the request of the DDTC. Although the audit found no violations of ITAR, we committed to the DDTC that we would enhance certain policies and procedures and we have established a company-wide Office of Trade Compliance. We continue to implement policies and procedures to ensure that we comply with ITAR and related regulations. We may be subjected to ITAR compliance audits in the future that may uncover improper or illegal activities that would subject us to material remediation costs, civil and criminal fines and/or penalties and/or an injunction. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these outcomes could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We have significant operations in Arizona, Florida, California and other locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our telecommunications transmission segment designs and manufactures our over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred in the past. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment manufactures and designs traveling wave tube amplifiers in Santa Clara, California, an area close to major earthquake fault lines, and also manufactures amplifiers in Melville, New York, an area subject to hurricanes.Our operations in these and other locations (such as in our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona and our mobile data communication segment’s network operations center located in Germantown, Maryland), could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and man-made disasters or disruptions.In the event of any such disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our dependence on component availability, government furnished equipment, subcontractors and key suppliers, including the core manufacturing expertise of our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, exposes us to risk. Although we obtain certain components and subsystems from a single source or a limited number of sources, we believe that most components and subsystems are available from alternative suppliers and subcontractors. A significant interruption in the delivery of such items, however, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our telecommunications transmission segment operates our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona which has been utilized, at one time or another, by all three of our business segments and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party commercial customers, including prime contractors to the U.S. government, who have outsourced a portion of their manufacturing to us. This allows us to secure volume discounts on key components, better control the quality of our manufacturing process and maximize the utilization of our manufacturing capacity. Intersegment sales in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 by the telecommunications transmission segment to the RF microwave amplifiers segment were $1.7 million, $2.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively. In fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, intersegment sales by the telecommunications transmission segment to the mobile data communications segment were $0.5 million, $2.7 million and $11.2 million, respectively. 29We expect intercompany manufacturing to increase from current levels in future periods and we intend to maximize the use of our high-volume technology manufacturing center by continuing to seek contracts with third parties to outsource a portion of their manufacturing to us. If a natural disaster or other business interruption occurred with respect to our high-volume technology manufacturing center, we do not have immediate access to other manufacturing facilities and, as a result, our business would suffer. In addition, if our high-volume technology manufacturing center is unable to produce sufficient product or maintain quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in a decline in sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. We currently have a backlog of orders, mostly under contracts that our customers may modify or terminate. Almost all of the contracts in our backlog (including firm orders previously received from the U.S. government) are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the customer or for default in the event that we are unable to perform under the contract. We can give no assurance that our backlog will result in net sales. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors, including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If orders in our backlog are canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charges could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial condition.Contract cost growth on our fixed price contracts and cost reimbursable type contracts and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business and other risks. A substantial portion of our products and services are sold under fixed price contracts. This means that we bear the risk of unanticipated technological, manufacturing, supply or other problems, price increases or other increases in the cost of performance. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to the customer are incurred. This cost growth can occur if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect, or if estimates to complete increase. To a lesser extent, we provide products and services under cost reimbursable type contracts which carry the entire burden of costs exceeding a negotiated contract ceiling price. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face a number of risks relating to the expected growth of our business. Our business and operating results may be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage this growth.These risks include:•The loss of key technical or management personnel could adversely affect our business – Our future success depends on the continued contributions of key technical management personnel, including the key corporate and operating unit management at each of our subsidiaries. Many of our key personnel, particularly the key engineers at our subsidiaries, would be difficult to replace, and are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. Our expected growth and future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations is intense. Although we believe that we have been successful to date in recruiting and retaining key personnel, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we will need to grow and operate profitably. Also, the management skills that have been appropriate for us in the past may not continue to be appropriate if we grow and diversify. Additionally, we anticipate that our Board of Directors' previously disclosed exploration of strategic alternatives could result in greater than normal employee turnover.30•We may not be able to improve our processes and systems to keep pace with anticipated growth – The future growth of our business may place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage that growth, we must be prepared to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. We also need to continue to recruit and retain personnel and train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. If we are not able to timely and effectively manage our growth and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.•Our markets are highly competitive and there can be no assurance that we can continue our success – The markets for our products are highly competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that our competitors will not develop new technologies and products that are more effective than our own. We expect the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will encourage new competitors to enter the market. Also, although the implementation of advanced telecommunications services is in its early stages in many developing countries, we believe competition will continue to intensify as businesses and foreign governments realize the market potential of telecommunications services. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution resources greater than ours.Future acquisitions and investments may divert our resources and management attention, and the benefits from such acquisitions and investments may fall short of expectations.Future acquisitions or investments in businesses, technologies and product lines may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, increases to amortization expenses and the future write-off of intangibles acquired. Acquisitions involve other operational risks, including:•difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business, including the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business;•diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and•increased expenses associated with acquired businesses including managing the growth of such businesses.There can be no assurance that any future acquisitions and investments will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at the annual targeted level, our reputation and stock price may be harmed.Since September 2010, we have paid quarterly dividends pursuant to an annual targeted dividend amount that was established by our Board of Directors. On December 9, 2013, our Board of Directors increased our annual target dividend from $1.10 per common share to $1.20 per common share. We have paid quarterly dividends for sixteen consecutive quarters and, in fiscal 2014, we paid $18.7 million of cash dividends to our shareholders.Our dividend program requires the use of a portion of our cash flow. Our ability to continue to pay quarterly dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the targeted annual dividend amount or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.Protection of our intellectual property is limited and we are subject to the risk that third parties may claim our products or systems infringe their intellectual property rights. Our businesses rely, in large part, upon our proprietary scientific and engineering know-how and production techniques. Historically, patents have not been an important part of the protection of our intellectual property rights as competitors routinely develop similar but non-infringing products. We rely upon the laws of unfair competition and restrictions in licensing agreements and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property.31The departure of any of our key management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.From time to time, we receive correspondence alleging that a product or other part of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. We believe that we own or have licensed all intellectual property rights necessary for the operation of our businesses as currently conducted.If any technology we use is found to infringe on protected technology, we could be required to change our business practices, license the protected technology, and/or pay damages or other compensation to the infringed party and/or our customers who have incorporated our products into their systems or businesses. If we are unable to license protected technology that we use in our business or if we are required to change our business practices, we could be prohibited from making and selling some of our products or providing certain telecommunications services. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Comtech. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition involving Comtech that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, we have a classified board and the employment contract with our chief executive officer and agreements with other of our executive officers provide for substantial payments in certain circumstances or in the event of a change of control of Comtech. In the future, we may adopt a stockholder rights plan which could cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, this statute provides that, except in certain limited circumstances, a corporation shall not engage in any “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner.A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Comtech.32Our stock price is volatile.The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology-based companies, in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future as well. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock are described throughout the Risk Factors section and include, among others:•strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestures;•issuance of potentially dilutive equity or equity-type securities;•future announcements concerning us or our competitors;•receipt or non-receipt of substantial orders for products and services;•quality deficiencies in services or products;•results of technological innovations;•new commercial products;•changes in recommendations of securities analysts;•government regulations;•changes in the status or outcome of government audits;•proprietary rights or product or patent litigation;•changes in U.S. government policies;•changes related to ongoing military conflicts;•changes in economic conditions generally, particularly in the telecommunications sector;•changes in securities market conditions, generally;•changes in the status of litigation and legal matters (including changes in the status of export matters);•changes in the status of U.S. government investigations relating to our CEO;•cyber-attacks;•energy blackouts;•acts of terrorism or war;•inflation or deflation; and•rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices.Shortfalls in our sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.33Index