ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, product development, business strategy, continued acceptance of our products, market growth, and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe”, “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” the negative of these terms, or other similar words or comparable terminology. All statements in this report, other than statements of h istorical fact, are forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. However, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our business outlook, actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Our Fiscal 2009 acquisition of Radyne Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Radyne”) may ultimately not prove successful and we may not continue to realize anticipated benefits from this acquisition. We completed our acquisition restructuring plan related to our August 1, 2008 acquisition of Radyne in fiscal 2009. We have achieved operating efficiencies by eliminating redundant functions and related expenses by, among other things, vacating Radyne’s Phoenix, Arizona manufacturing facility, fully integrating Radyne’s satellite earth station product line’s manufacturing and engineering operations into our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona and moving Radyne’s corporate functions to our Melville, New York corporate headquarters. Although we expect to continue to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of the Radyne acquisition, we cannot be certain whether, and to what extent , such benefits will be achieved in the future. In particular, the ongoing success of the Radyne acquisition will depend on maintaining the efficiencies and cost savings we have achieved to date, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to do so. 20 Future acquisitions and investments may divert our resources and management attention, and the benefits from such acquisitions and investments may fall short of expectations. We intend to continue pursuing acquisitions or investments in businesses, technologies and product lines. Future acquisitions or investments may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, increases to amortization expenses and the future write-off of intangibles acquired. Such acquisitions or investments may also conflict with our $150.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”), thereby limiting our ability to draw on the Credit Facility or requiring us to repay the Credit Facility. Acquisitions involve other operational risks, including: · difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business, including the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and · increased expenses associated with acquired businesses including managing the growth of such businesses. There can be no assurance that our future acquisitions and investments will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business outlook is subject to a number of risks relating to the current economic climate. Overall global business conditions in all of our markets continue to be challenging. Nearly all businesses and governments around the world have been facing, and are continuing to face, capital and operating budget constraints and a much tighter credit environment. None of our three operating segments have been immune to these challenging conditions and each continues to face an uncertain economic environment. These challenging conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our businesses in a number of ways, including: · Difficulty in forecasting our results of operations – It is difficult to accurately forecast our results of operations as we cannot predict the severity, or the duration, of the current challenging economic environment or the impact it will have on our current and prospective customers. If our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we anticipate, our business outlook will prove to be inaccurate. · Additional reductions in telecommunications equipment and systems spending may occur – Our businesses have been negatively affected, both currently and in the past, by uncertain economic environments both in the overall market and, more specifically, in the telecommunications sector. Our customers have reduced their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems and in some cases postponed or reduced the purchase of our products and systems. These reductions have impacted all three of our business segments. The overall business environment remains challenging. As a result of the ongoing difficult global economic environment, our customers may further reduce their spending on telecomm unications equipment and systems which would negatively impact all three of our business segments. As a consequence, it is possible that our bookings in fiscal 2011 will not meet or exceed the levels achieved in fiscal 2010. If this occurs, it would adversely affect our business outlook, revenues, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. · Our customers may not be able to obtain financing – Although many of our products are relatively inexpensive when compared to the total systems or networks that they are incorporated into, our sales are affected by the ability of customers to obtain the substantial financing they require to build out their networks, fund operations and ultimately make purchases from us. The inability of those customers to obtain sufficient credit would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, if the current economic environment and lack of financing results in insolvencies for our customers, it would adversely impact the recoverability of our accounts receivable which would, in turn, adversely impact our results of operations. · Our ability to maintain affordable credit insurance may become more difficult – In the normal course of our business, we purchase credit insurance to mitigate some of our domestic and international credit risk. Although credit insurance remains generally available, upon renewal, it may become more expensive to obtain and might require higher deductibles than in the past. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to obtain adequate credit insurance consistent with our past practices. 21 Our operating results are difficult to forecast, subject to significant fluctuations and are likely to be volatile. We have experienced, and will experience in the future, significant fluctuations in new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share from period-to-period. For instance, a large portion of our telecommunications transmission and our RF microwave amplifier segments’ net sales are derived from products such as satellite earth station equipment and satellite earth station traveling wave tube amplifiers, respectively, that generally have short-lead times. As a result, bookings and backlog related to these products are extremely sensitive to short-term fluctuations in customer demand. The remaining portion of our telecommunications transmission and our RF microwave amplifiers segments’ net sales are generally derived from large contracts or military program opportunities that are subject to lengthy sales cycles and therefore difficult to predict. In addition, almost all of our net sales and orders from our mobile data communications segment are derived from our MTS and BFT-1 IDIQ contracts which are subject to contract ceilings, unpredictable funding, as well as deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. The recent loss of the BFT-2 program and ongoing MTS competition negatively impacts our ability to accurately forecast future operating results. Our new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, also may vary significantly from period-to-period because of other factors including: the financial performance of acquisitions; new accounting standards relating to acquisitions and revenue recognition; product mix sold; fluctuating market demand; price competition; new product introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in the timing of delivery of components or subsystems; political instability; regulatory developments; changes in income tax rates or tax credits; the price and expected volatility of our stock (which will impact, among other items, the amount of stock-based compensation expense we may rec ord); and general economic conditions. Changes in government policy, including changes in U.S. policies relating to Iraq and Afghanistan, could have a material adverse effect on us. In recent years, we have benefited from increased Department of Defense spending relating to the ongoing military conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In our fiscal 2009, new U.S. government policies were implemented related to Iraq and Afghanistan. These new policies included a formal plan for troop withdrawal from Iraq that is expected to conclude by the end of calendar 2011. In our fiscal 2010, the U.S. presidential administration announced a plan for troop withdrawal from Afghanistan that is expected to begin in July 2011. We believe such policy changes resulted in a reduction of orders we received in fiscal 2010. These policies or future changes in these or other policies (such as changes in U.S. health care policy) or priorities could have a negative impact on our business and results of operation. A shifting political environment makes it more difficult than usual to estimate our future income and expenses. The future direction of the political environment including potential changes in policies relating to the ongoing military conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, and threats of war could have a material adverse effect on us. Terrorist attacks, the U.S. government’s and other governments’ responses thereto, and threats of war could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any escalation in these events or similar or future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. 22 Our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depend on our ability to maintain U.S. government business. In recent years, we have increased our dependence on U.S. government business. Our sales to the U.S. government (including sales to prime contractors to the U.S. government) accounted for approximately 71.1%, 56.4% and 66.4% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately 72.2% of our backlog at July 31, 2010 consisted of orders from U.S. government contracts, U.S. government subcontracts and U.S. government funded programs and we expect such business to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. Our U.S. government business exposes us to various risks, including: · unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions; · unpredictable order placements, reductions, delays or cancellations; · reductions in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and other spending priorities; · penalties arising from post-award contract audits or cost audits in which the value of our contracts may be reduced; · higher than expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; and · unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close out procedures, including government approval of final indirect rates. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government for its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or costs committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. In addition to the U.S. government’s right to terminate, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract may not be fully funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract only if, and when, appropriat ions are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of awards or lead to changes in program content. Also, we obtain certain of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. There can be no assurance that we will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or that the contracts we are awarded will ultimately be profitable. Noncompliance with numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions (including those pertaining to income taxes) could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business operations are primarily located in the U.S.; however, we must comply with domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions. Our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that must comply with various U.S. government regulations, including those of the FCC, as well as similar international laws and regulations. Because the laws and regulations pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following: · We could be disqualified as a supplier to the U.S. government – As a supplier to the U.S. government, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security and contracting practices. Failure to comply with these procurement regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we would lose most, if not all, of our U.S. government customers and revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly. Among the potentia l causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 23 The government could investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government could adjust our contract-related costs and fees. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us, and if it were to prevail, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable by us. As discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, we could be adversely affected by the results of an upcoming independent audit of our compliance efforts with regard to export regulations that was requested by the Enforcement Division of the U.S. Department of State. · Adverse regulatory changes could impair our ability to sell products – Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation and availability of frequency spectrum, and in the military standards and specifications that define the current satellite networking environment, could materially harm our business by: (i) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (ii) making our current products less attractive or obsolete, or (iii) increasing the opportunity for additional competition. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards and reassign bandwidth for these products and services. The reduced number of availab le frequencies for other products and services and the time delays inherent in the government approval process of new products and services have caused, and may continue to cause, our customers to cancel, postpone or reschedule their installation of communications systems including their satellite, over-the-horizon microwave, or terrestrial line-of-sight microwave communication systems. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of products to our customers. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially harm our business. · Recycling regulations may significantly increase our costs – The European Union (“EU”) has adopted two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. The first of these is the Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive, which directs EU member states to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electrical and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally sound disposal of certain products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prio r to that date that are being replaced. The EU has also adopted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the EU after July 1, 2006. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the U.S., China and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. There can be no assurance that such existing or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · We may be subject to environmental liabilities – We engage in manufacturing and are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. We are also subject to the RoHS directive which restricts the use of lead, mercury and other substances in electrical and electronic products. The failure to comply with current or future environmental requirements could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the handling, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances by us or our predecessors may have resulted, or could in the future result, in contamination requiring investigation or remediation, or leading to other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Ongoing tax audits could result in a material tax assessment – Our U.S., state and foreign tax returns are subject to audit and a resulting tax assessment or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The final determination of tax examinations and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Our fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns were recently audited by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and our fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008 federal income tax returns are currently being audited by the IRS. Other returns may be selected for audit in the future. Although adjustments relating to our fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax returns were immaterial, a resulting tax assessment or settlement for fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2008, and other periods that may be selected for future audit, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 24 Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our Radyne acquisition, could be further impaired as a result of future business conditions or if we change our reporting unit structure. As of July 31, 2010, we have goodwill and intangible assets of $185.4 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet of which $132.7 million and $51.8 million relates to goodwill and intangibles in our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifier segment, respectively, and $0.9 million relates to intangible assets, other than goodwill, in our mobile data communications segment. For purposes of reviewing impairment and the recoverability of goodwill, each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors in determining the fair values of the reporting unit. We perform an annual impairment review in the first quarter of each fiscal year, unle ss there are other indicators of impairment. Based on our annual goodwill impairment review performed at the start of our first quarter of fiscal 2010, we determined that none of the goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet was impaired. However, in July 2010, we were advised by the U.S. Army that we were not selected as the program manager and vendor for the next-generation BFT program known as BFT-2. As a result, we experienced a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our common stock and we determined it was appropriate to conduct an interim goodwill impairment test for all three of our reporting units. Based on our interim impairment analysis, we determined that all of our mobile data communications reporting unit’s goodwill was impaired. As a result, during fiscal 2010, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $13.2 million. We also concluded that the goodwill of our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers reporting units was not impaired. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment and is based on how our President and Chief Executive Officer manages the business. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, or if we change our future reporting structure, we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. Although we performed our fiscal 2011 impairment testing on August 1, 2010 and determined that there was no additional impairment of our goodwill, changes in our future operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in a further impairment of goodwill in future operating periods. Any impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financ ial condition. All of our business activities are subject to rapid technological change requiring us to continuously develop technology and/or obtain licensed technology in order to compete successfully. We are engaged in business activities characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product announcements and enhancements, and changing customer demands. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies such as TDMA-based technologies and the emergence of new industry standards such as WiMAX could render any of our products and services obsolete or non-competitive. The technology used in our products and services evolves rapidly, and our business position depends, in large part, on the continuous refinement of our scientific and engineering expertise and the development, either through internal research and development or acquisitions of businesses or licenses, of new or enhanced products and techno logies. We may not have the economic or technological resources to be successful in such efforts and we may not be able to identify and respond to technological improvements made by our competitors in a timely or cost-effective fashion. Our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third party who maintains patents associated with the technology. As discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (14)(c) Commitments and Contingencies – Legal Proceedings and Other Matters” included in “Part II — Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” we are a par ty to a lawsuit involving this technology. A significant technological breakthrough by others, including smaller competitors or new firms, or unsuccessful outcome of defending our rights to licensed technologies, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Ongoing compliance with the provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards could unexpectedly materially increase our costs and compliance related expenses. Because we are a publicly traded company, we are required to comply with provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting. Because securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards pertaining to our business are relatively complex, our business faces increased risks including the following: · If we identify a material weakness in the future, our costs will unexpectedly increase – Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to attest to and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. · Stock-based compensation accounting standards could negatively impact our stock – Since our inception, we have used stock-based awards as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock-based awards directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. In fiscal 2006, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation,” a revised standard that requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee and director stock-based awards using a fair value method. The adoption of the new standard had a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the value of stock-based awards. The ongoing application of this standard could impact the future value of our common stock and may result in greater stock price volatility. To the extent that this accounting standard makes it less attractive to grant stock-based awards to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Changes in securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards are increasing our costs – The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. These changes resulted in increased costs and as we grow, we expect to see our costs increase. The SEC has passed, promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement that we must file our financial statements with the SEC using the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language (commonly referred to as “XBRL”) and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). We may have to add additional accounting staff , engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs to comply with XBRL and IFRS requirements. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) has revised its requirements for companies, such as us, that are listed on NASDAQ. These changes are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs including making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance or maintain our current liability coverage. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. 26 We could be adversely affected if our upcoming International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) audit finds further violations of ITAR regulations. As a result of our prior violations related to the ITAR and pursuant to the request of the Enforcement Division of the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (“DDTC”) of the U.S. Department of State, in September 2010, we submitted an ITAR compliance audit plan to be performed by an independent auditor. The audit plan and the independent audit firm selected have both been approved by the DDTC. The results of the audit must be provided to the DDTC by December 2010. Should we or the independent auditor identify a weakness relating to our ITAR compliance, the ongoing costs of remediation could be material. If the independent audit finds violations and/or the DDTC reopens the case against us that was closed in fiscal 2010 for any circumstances, it could result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties and/or result in an injunction against us, all of which, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our dependence on sales to international customers exposes us to risks, including U.S. export restrictions. Sales for use by international customers (including sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that will be sold to international customers) represented approximately 22.9%, 32.1% and 26.7% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to be a substantial portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. These sales expose us to certain risks, including barriers to trade, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which may make our products less price-competitive), political and economic instability, exposure to public health epidemics, availability of suitable export financing, tariff regulations, and other U.S. and foreign regulations that may apply to the export of our products. Although we take steps to mitigate our risk with respect to international sales, we may not be able to do so in every instance for any of the following reasons, among others: · We may not be able to continue to structure our international contracts to reduce risk – We attempt to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign countries by seeking subcontracts with large systems suppliers, contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, advance or milestone payments and irrevocable letters of credit in our favor. However, we may not be able to reduce the economic risk of doing business in foreign countries, in all instances. In such cases, billed and unbilled receivables relating to international sales are subject to increased collectability risk and may result in significant write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, foreign defense contracts generally co ntain provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the government. · We rely on a limited number of international sales agents – In some countries, we rely upon one or a small number of sales agents, exposing us to risks relating to our contracts with, and related performance of, those agents. We attempt to reduce our risk with respect to sales agents by establishing additional foreign sales offices where it is practical and by engaging, where practicable, more than one independent sales representative in a territory. It is our policy to require all sales agents to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Violations of any of these laws, rules or regulations, and other business practices that are regarded as unethical, could interrupt the sales of our products and services, result in the cancellation of orders or the termination of customer relationships, and could damage our reputation, any of which developments could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. · We may not be able to obtain export licenses from the U.S. government – Certain of our products and systems may require licenses from U.S. government agencies for export from the U.S., and some of our products are not permitted to be exported. In addition, in certain cases, U.S. export controls also severely limit unlicensed technical discussions, such as discussions with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, in cases where we may need a license, our ability to compete against a non-U.S. domiciled foreign company that may not be subject to the same U.S. laws may be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary export licenses and failure to obtain required licenses would adversely affect our sales outside the U.S. 27 We have significant operations in Florida, California and other locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our telecommunications transmission segment designs and manufactures our over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred in the past. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment manufactures and designs traveling wave tube amplifiers in Santa Clara, California, close to major earthquake fault lines. Our operations in these and other locations (such as in our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona and our mobile data communication segment’s network operations center located in Germantown, Maryland), could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and man-made disasters or disruptions. In the event of any such disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our dependence on component availability, government furnished equipment, subcontractors and key suppliers, including the core manufacturing expertise of our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, exposes us to risk. Although we obtain certain components and subsystems from a single source or a limited number of sources, we believe that most components and subsystems are available from alternative suppliers and subcontractors. A significant interruption in the delivery of such items, however, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have increased the company-wide dependency on our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, which is part of our telecommunications transmission segment. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, intersegment sales by the telecommunications transmission segment to the mobile data communications segment were $82.2 million, $53.0 million and $123.8 million, respectively. Intersegment sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 by the telecommunications transmission segment to the RF microwave amplifiers segment were $7.2 million, $14.6 million and $16.0 million, respectively. We intend to continue to increase our company-wide dependency on our high-volume technology manufacturing center. We also intend to continue to seek contracts with third parties to outsource a portion of their manufacturing to us. If a natural disaster or other business interruption occurred with respect to our high-volume technology manufacturing center, we do not have immediate access to other manufacturing facilities, and as a result, our business would suffer. In addition, if our high-volume technology manufacturing center is unable to produce sufficient product or maintain quality, it could have a material adverse effect on all three of our business segments, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, the U.S. government experienced delays in the receipt of certain components that are ultimately provided to us for incorporation into our satellite transceivers that we ship to the U.S. government. If we do not receive these or other government furnished components in a timely manner, we could experience delays in fulfilling orders from our customers. 28 Our MTS and BFT-1 contracts and related business activities are subject to a number of unique risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to the other risks described in this section, the risks applicable to our MTS and BFT-1 business include the following: · Our MTS and BFT-1 contracts are IDIQ contracts and can be terminated at any time – Our mobile data communications segment’s revenues and profits are primarily derived from our MTS and BFT-1 contracts. Our telecommunications transmission segment’s operating results are impacted positively or negatively by the amount of MTS and BFT-1 orders received because it manufactures our MTS and BFT-1 satellite transceivers. Both of these contracts can be terminated at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Because both of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts, the U.S. Army is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. If such contracts are terminated or if MTS and BFT-1 revenues decline, operating results in both our telecommunications transmission and mobile data communications segments will be adversely affected. · Our current MTS contract is nearing expiration – Sales to the MTS program in fiscal 2010 were approximately $369.6 million. Our MTS contract currently expires January 13, 2011. Through July 31, 2010, we have received $668.7 million in total orders under our $899.1 million contract. If we ultimately do not receive a further contract ceiling increase, a contract extension or are not awarded a new contract, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Competition for the next-generation MTS contract is increasing – Our MTS contract is not subject to automatic renewal or extension upon its scheduled expiration on January 13, 2011. It is possible that there will be an open competition for the next-generation MTS contract, known as MTS III. We believe that other existing and potential commercial and defense-related competitors, such as Viasat, Inc. (which was awarded the BFT-2 program contract), Qualcomm, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation and Lockheed Martin Corporation are developing or already have developed their own next-generation MTS III solution. Increased competition may adversely impact operating margins throughout the industry. We were informed by the U.S. Army that we lost the BFT-2 program because ViaSat, Inc. submitted a total evaluated price that was approximately 50% lower than our proposal. It is possible, that ViaSat, Inc. or another vendor may submit a similar lower priced proposal for MTS III. Also, as discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, the MTS and BFT programs may merge with each other and we may lose the MTS III competition. Ultimately, if competitors are awarded future contracts, or if our MTS contract is not renewed or extended, or if we fail to succeed in a re-compete process, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Future MTS revenues are dependent on the success of our research and development efforts – In the past several years, we have committed considerable research and development resources with a focus on designing and delivering backward compatible next-generation products and technology. Although we continue to work closely with the U.S. Army to provide additional enhancements to our network capabilities and communications performance and believe that we have and are developing new products that provide compelling technological advancement to our existing products and that are, importantly, backward compatible with the large number of existing MTS systems that have been previously shipped, it is possible that the U.S. Army will ultimately cease or reduce its ordering levels for our products and services which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Our current BFT-1 contract is nearing its expiration and we were not selected as the vendor for BFT-2 – Sales to the BFT-1 program in fiscal 2010 were approximately $53.6 million. Through July 31, 2010, we have received $262.8 million in total orders under our $384.0 million BFT-1 contract, which expires in December 2011. If we do not ultimately receive additional orders under the BFT-1 contract, it would have a material adverse effect on our business outlook. In July 2010 we were advised by the U.S. Army Contracting Command-CECOM Contracting Center that we were not selected as the vendor for the Force XXI Battle Command Brigade and Below, Blue Force Tracking 2 (FBCB2-BFT-2) program. The announce ment of this decision could have an adverse impact on our business and our ability to secure the next-generation MTS III program and could ultimately adversely impact our future revenues and operating results in both our telecommunications transmission and mobile data communications segments. Given the loss of the BFT-2 program contract, we expect annual BFT-1 revenues to eventually decline from current levels. 29 · Our MTS and BFT-1 revenues and related earnings are dependent on third-party products or components – A significant portion of our mobile data communications revenues in fiscal 2011 are expected to be derived from sales of ruggedized computers and leased satellite capacity. We purchase these and other products and services from third-party suppliers and incorporate them into our MTS and BFT-1 solutions which we sell to the U.S. Army. If the MTS ruggedized computers cannot be produced or are not delivered timely by the third-party supplier, or if actual field deployment schedules are delayed, our anticipated consolidated financial results would be adversely affected. Our profitability is also highly depende nt on the ability of our satellite network providers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. If our satellite network providers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. · Changes in U.S. Army plans, strategies and related programs may adversely impact us – Although we maintain an active dialogue with the U.S. Army, we are not privy to detailed and specific plans and strategies of the MTS or BFT-1 programs, which are subject to daily, if not constant, changes. The U.S. Army has stated that it intends to eventually converge onto a single mobile system configuration known as Joint Battle Command-Platform (“JBC-P”) with a goal of unifying tracking and battlefield situational awareness. JBC-P is intended for all U.S. military services (e.g., U.S. Army and U.S. Marines). As such, it is possible, that both the MTS and BFT programs could be combined into one or more oth er programs or be combined with each other which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Changes in U.S. Army procurement policies may result in material changes to our business – In order to maintain a competitive procurement process, the U.S. Army provides interested companies with information about its program plans; however, detailed program requirements and related strategic funding decisions are subject to daily, if not constant, change. As such, it is difficult to predict the impact of policy decisions on future contract awards. The U.S. government announced a stated policy direction to reduce the number of sole-source contract awards across all procuring agencies. We are currently the sole source provider of the entire MTS system and it is possible that another vendor may be selected. In addition, a large portion of our revenues include the resale of third-party components, such as MTS ruggedized computers and satellite transponder time that we incorporate into our MTS and BFT-1 solutions. It is possible that, on future contracts, the government may provide these or other third-party components as government furnished equipment or procure services directly from such suppliers. As such, if we only win a portion of a future MTS contract award, our revenues and related earnings would significantly decline and our business outlook would be negatively impacted. Also, if we are required to provide the U.S. Army with government-purpose rights that would permit other companies, including our competitors, to use our technology to develop products for the U.S. government, our competitive position would be adversely affected. · A lack of reliable MTS and BFT-1 fielding information creates uncertainty in our business outlook – To date we have shipped approximately 44,000 MTS transceivers and 127,000 BFT-1 transceivers, including upgrades and replacements. However, we are not able to accurately determine how many of those units have been deployed in the field, or how many field units have ultimately been replaced because they were damaged or upgraded. In addition, both the MTS and BFT-1 program administrators do not share detailed fielding information with us which prevents us from accurately predicting their short-term or long-term need s. As such, the lack of reliable detailed and specific information about the U.S. Army’s deployed equipment and the actual number of vehicles or systems that are expected to be deployed and equipped with our products exposes us to the risk that our business outlook may be inaccurate. In addition, our business decisions based on incorrect assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Because of the nature of future MTS revenues, our operating results are expected to be volatile – Our MTS ruggedized computers currently being shipped to the U.S. Army are manufactured by a third-party supplier and have significantly lower gross margins than prior MTS computers which were manufactured by a different supplier. We expect that nearly all new MTS systems sold to the U.S. Army for the foreseeable future will incorporate this new computer. As a result, gross margins in our mobile data communications segment in any particular future period will be highly influenced by the ultimate quantity of new MTS ruggedized computers shipped in those periods. Accordingly, our operatin g results in the future will be more volatile and it will be more difficult than in the past to accurately project gross margins and our related operating income, net income and earnings per share in any particular future period. 30 · Our MTS and BFT-1 inventory could be excessive if we do not receive additional orders under our existing contracts or our MTS contract is not renewed or extended – We currently anticipate that we will continue to maintain a substantial inventory level in order to provide products to our customers on a timely basis. Certain components required in our production process have purchasing lead-times of four months or longer, and the delivery timetables on our contracts require us to provide products in shorter timeframes after we receive an order. We currently have approximately $9.3 million of inventory related to our MTS and BFT-1 contracts, substantially all of which relates to funded orders in our backlog a t July 31, 2010. If we determine that this inventory will not be utilized or cannot be sold in excess of its net book value, we would be required to record a write-down of the value of such inventory in our consolidated financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period we make such determination. In addition, if forecasted orders are not received, or if we do not secure an MTS contract after its current expiration date of January 13, 2011, we may be left with large inventories of slow moving or unusable parts or terminals that we would have to write-off and which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · We may incur material expenses if our MTS and BFT-1 networks experience downtime or fail – All satellite communications are subject to the risk that a satellite or ground station failure or a natural disaster may interrupt service and our network systems occasionally experience downtime. Interruptions in service could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Should we be required to obtain or restore service on another system in the event of a satellite failure, our costs could increase which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face increased risks associated with our strategies to grow revenues associated with our commercial satellite-based mobile data applications and microsatellite space applications. Although we believe that there may be opportunities to leverage our core strengths and expertise in satellite-based mobile tracking and messaging services into commercial market applications, to date commercial satellite-based mobile data applications have not been a material part of our business. Our future success in developing these markets will depend on, among other things, our ability to access effective distribution channels, the development or licensing of applications which provide us a competitive advantage, and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Ultimately, we may have to acquire another company, increase our operating expenses and devote additional capital resources to be successful in these markets. In addition, as a result of our fiscal 2009 Radyne acquisition, we now offer both government and commercial customers the design and production of microsatellites that provide a portion of the functionality of expensive large satellites but at a fraction of the cost. We have established a modest position in this market. Although we continue to invest in marketing, sales and internal research and development efforts to establish a leadership position in this market, we may not be able to penetrate this market in a significant way. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in a decline in sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. We currently have a backlog of orders, mostly under contracts that the customer may modify or terminate. Almost all of the contracts in our backlog (including firm orders previously received from the U.S. government) are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the customer or for default in the event that we are unable to perform under the contract. We can give no assurance that our backlog will result in net sales. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If our backlog is canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charges could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Contract cost growth on our fixed price contracts and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business and other risks. A substantial portion of our products and services are sold under fixed price contracts. This means that we bear the risk of unanticipated technological, manufacturing, supply or other problems, price increases or other increases in the cost of performance. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to the customer are incurred. This cost growth can occur if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect, or if estimates to complete increase. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face a number of risks relating to the expected long-term growth of our business. Our business and operating results may be negatively impacted if we are unable to continue to manage this growth. These risks include: · The loss of key technical or management personnel could adversely affect our business – Our future success depends on the continued contributions of key technical management personnel, including the key corporate and operating unit management at each of our subsidiaries. Many of our key personnel, particularly the key engineers at our subsidiaries, would be difficult to replace, and are not subject to employment or noncompetition agreements. Our expected long-term growth and future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entit ies and other organizations is intense. Although we believe that we have been successful to date in recruiting and retaining key personnel, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we will need to continue to grow and operate profitably. Also, the management skills that have been appropriate for us in the past may not continue to be appropriate if we continue to grow and diversify. · We may not be able to improve our processes and systems to keep pace with anticipated growth – Certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. We also need to continue to recruit and retain personnel and train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. If we are n ot able to timely and effectively manage our growth and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · Our markets are highly competitive and there can be no assurance that we can continue our success – The markets for our products are highly competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that our competitors will not develop new technologies and products that are more effective than our own. We expect the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will encourage new competitors to enter the market. Also, although the implementation of advanced telecommunications services is in it s early stages in many developing countries, we believe competition will continue to intensify as businesses and foreign governments realize the market potential of telecommunications services. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution resources greater than ours. 32 Protection of our intellectual property is limited and we are subject to the risk that third parties may claim our products or systems infringe their intellectual property rights. Our businesses rely, in large part, upon our proprietary scientific and engineering know-how and production techniques. Historically, patents have not been an important part of our protection of our intellectual property rights as competitors routinely develop similar but non-infringing products. We rely upon the laws of unfair competition, restrictions in licensing agreements and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. The departure of any of our key management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We believe that we own or have licensed all intellectual property rights necessary for the operation of our businesses as currently contemplated. For example, our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third party who maintains the patent. If the technology we use is found to infringe on protected technology, we could be required to change our business practices, license the protected technology, and/or pay damages or other compensation to the infringed party and/or our customers who have incorporated our products into their systems or businesse s. If we are unable to license protected technology that we use in our business or if we are required to change our business practices, we could be prohibited from making and selling some of our products or providing certain telecommunications services. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Comtech. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition involving Comtech that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, we have a classified board and the employment contract with our chief executive officer and agreements with other of our executive officers provide for substantial payments in certain circumstances or in the event of a change of control of Comtech. In the future, we may adopt a stockholder rights plan which could cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directo rs. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, this statute provides that, except in certain limited circumstances, a corporation shall not engage in any “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an “ ;interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Comtech. 33 Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions that could limit our ability to implement our business plan. We have a committed $150.0 million, unsecured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of bank lenders that expires on January 31, 2014. The Credit Facility contains certain covenants, including covenants limiting our ability to incur debt, make certain payments (including dividends), repurchase shares of our common stock, sell certain assets, and make certain investments. It also requires us to maintain certain minimum leve ls of Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) (as defined in the Credit Facility) and does not allow us to permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to exceed certain ratios. Our Credit Facility, as amended, also requires us to maintain $100.0 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, an incremental amount of Adjusted EBITDA, and also contains certain events of default, including: failure to make payments, failure to perform or observe terms, or a change of control (as defined in the agreement). If an event of default occurs, the lenders may, among other things, terminate their commitments and declare all outstanding borrowings, if any, to be immediately due and payable together with accrued interest and fees. These restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to implement our business plan, finance future operations, respond to changing business and economic conditions, secure additional financing, and engage in certain strategic transactions. In addition, if we fail to meet the covenants contained in our Credit Facility, our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility may be restricted. If we have significant borrowings under the agreement and we violate a covenant or an event of default occurs and the lenders accelerate the maturity of any outstanding borrowings and terminate their commitment to make future loans, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with our financial or other covenants or that any covenant violations will be waived. In addition, if we fail to comply with our financial or other covenants, we may need additional financing in order to service or extinguish our indebtedness. In the future, we may not be able to obtain financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. Our 3.0% convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances (such as the payment of cash dividends on our common stock) and contain certain restrictions and covenants. We can provide no assurances that we will not default on these or other debt obligations. We may, at our option, redeem some or all of the 3.0% convertible senior notes on or after May 5, 2014. Holders of the 3.0% convertible senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding 3.0% convertible senior notes, solely for cash, on May 1, 2014, May 1, 2019 and May 1, 2024 and upon certain events, including a change in control. If not redeemed by us or repaid pursuant to the holders’ right to require repurchase, the 3.0% convertible senior notes mature on May 1, 2029. If the holders of our 3.0% convertible senior notes require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding notes that they own, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the 3.0% convertible senior notes or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance them. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt; make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 34 Our stock price is volatile. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology-based companies, in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future as well. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock are described throughout the Risk Factors section and include, among others: · strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestures; · issuance of potentially dilutive equity or equity-type securities; · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · receipt or non-receipt of substantial orders for products and services; · quality deficiencies in services or products; · results of technological innovations; · new commercial products; · changes in recommendations of securities analysts; · government regulations; · proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; · changes in U.S. government policies; · changes related to the ongoing military conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan; · changes in the status of our MTS and BFT-1 contracts or announcement of a future MTS III award; · changes in economic conditions generally, particularly in the telecommunications sector; · changes in securities market conditions, generally; · changes in the status of litigation and legal matters (including changes in the status of export matters); · energy blackouts; · acts of terrorism or war; · inflation or deflation; and · rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. Shortfalls in our sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 35 We have been named as a party in three pending purported class action lawsuits which may require significant management time and attention and, if adversely determined, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have been sued in two nearly identical purported class action lawsuits (Pompano Beach Police & Firefighters’ Retirement System, etc., v. Comtech Telecommunications Corp. et al., 09 Civ. 3007 (SJF/AKT) and Lawing v. Comtech Telecommunications Corp., 09 Civ. 3182 (JFB)), both filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (the “Complaints”). Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are also named as defendants. The Complaints, filed in July 2009, allege that we violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by making materially false and misleading statements with respect to revenue and earnings guidance for fiscal year 2009. The plaintiffs purport to sue on behalf of purchase rs of our stock between September 17, 2008 and March 9, 2009. The essence of the Complaints is that we allegedly failed to disclose certain adverse facts that were allegedly known to exist at the time we issued the revenue and earnings guidance at issue in the Complaints. We have, to date, only been served with a complaint by the Pompano Beach Police and Firefighters’ Retirement System (“Pompano Beach”). On September 10, 2009, the District Court entered a scheduling order in the Pompano Beach lawsuit, and pursuant to that order, Pompano Beach filed a motion seeking consolidation of the two related actions and appointment as lead plaintiff under the procedure set out in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. On August 17, 2010, the magistrate judge assigned to the matter recommended that this motion, which was unopposed, be granted. We believe the case has no merit and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves and our officers in this action. Although the ultimate outcome of litigation is difficult to accurately predict, we believe that the final outcome of this action will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. We are also named in a putative stockholder class action complaint that was filed against us, CPI International and the members of the CPI International board of directors, in the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara, entitled Continuum Capital v. Michael Targoff, et al. (Case No. 110CV175940). The lawsuit concerns the proposed merger between us and CPI, that was terminated on September 7, 2010, and generally asserts claims alleging, among other things, that each member of CPI’s board of directors breached his fiduciary duties by agreeing to the terms of the proposed merger and by failing to provide stockholders with allegedly material information related to the proposed merger, and that we aided and abetted the breaches of fiduciary d uty allegedly committed by the members of CPI’s board of directors. The lawsuit seeks, among other things, class action certification and monetary relief. On July 28, 2010, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, making generally the same claims against the same defendants, and seeking the same relief. In addition, the amended complaint generally alleges that the consideration to be paid to CPI International’s stockholders under the terms of the proposed merger is inadequate. We believe all claims asserted in the lawsuit to be without merit, and we believe that the final outcome of this action will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. 36 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 