ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, product development, business strategy, continued acceptance of our products, market growth, and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” or other similar words. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. However, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Our recent acquisition of Radyne Corporation (“Radyne”) may not be successful and we may not realize anticipated benefits from this acquisition. The Radyne acquisition may divert our resources and management attention and our operating results may fall short of expectations. On August 1, 2008 (the beginning of our fiscal year 2009), we purchased Radyne using a portion of our existing cash and cash equivalents for a preliminary aggregate purchase price of approximately $231.7 million. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of the Radyne acquisition, we cannot assure whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. In particular, the success of the Radyne acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated efficiencies and cost savings, primarily through the elimination of redundant functions and the integration of certain operations. No assurances can be given that we will be able to achieve these efficiencies and cost savings. 15 Radyne has a history of inconsistent operating results and missing expectations and we will face operational and administrative challenges as we work to integrate Radyne’s operations into our business. In particular, the Radyne acquisition has significantly expanded the types of products that we sell, expanded the businesses with which we are engaged in, as well as increased the number of our employees and the number of facilities we operate, thereby presenting us with significant challenges as we will need to manage the substantial increase in scale resulting from the acquisition. We must integrate a large number of systems, both operational and administrative. Delays in the process could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ultimately, we may not be successful. The diversion of our management’s attention to these matters and away from other business concerns could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results may fall short of expectations. Future acquisitions and strategic investments may divert our resources and management attention, results may fall short of expectations and, as a result, our operating results may be difficult to forecast and may be volatile. We intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of investments in businesses, technologies and product lines as a key component of our growth strategy. Any future acquisitions or investments may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and amortization expenses or in-process research and development charges related to intangibles assets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and · loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business. We cannot assure you that our future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Due to many factors, including the Radyne acquisition and the amount of business represented by large contracts, our operating results are difficult to forecast and may be volatile. We have experienced, and will experience in the future, significant fluctuations in new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, from quarter-to-quarter. One reason for this is that a significant portion of our business — primarily the over-the-horizon microwave systems of our telecommunications transmission segment, our RF microwave amplifiers segment and our mobile data communications segment — is derived from a limited number of relatively large customer contracts, the timing of which cannot be predicted. Our new orders, net sales and operating results, including our net income and earnings per share, also may vary significantly from period-to-period because of the following factors: the financial performance of acquisitions; product mix sold; fluctuating market demand; price competition; new product introductions by our competitors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; unexpected changes in delivery of components or subsystems; political instability; regulatory developments; changes in income tax rates or tax credits; the price and expected volatility of our stock (which will impact, among other items, the amount of stock-based compensation expense we may record); and general economic conditions. In addition, on August 1, 2008, as a result of our acquisition of Radyne there will be a significant change to our future financial performance. Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as indications of our future performance because these comparisons may not be meaningful. 16 Our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depend on our ability to maintain our level of U.S. government business. In recent years, we have increased our dependence on U.S. government business. Our sales to the U.S. government (including sales to prime contractors to the U.S. government) accounted for approximately 66.4%, 61.3% and 47.3% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 71.5% of our backlog at July 31, 2008 consisted of orders from the U.S. government. Radyne’s business and net sales were also significantly dependent on the business it received from the U.S. government. We expect such business to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales for the foreseeable future. U.S. government business exposes us to various risks, including: · unexpected contract or project terminations or suspensions; · unpredictable order placements, reductions or cancellations; · reductions in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and other spending priorities; · penalties arising from post-award contract audits; · cost audits in which the value of our contracts may be reduced; · higher-than-expected final costs, particularly relating to software and hardware development, for work performed under contracts where we commit to specified deliveries for a fixed price; and · unpredictable cash collections of unbilled receivables that may be subject to acceptance of contract deliverables by the customer and contract close out procedures, including government approval of final indirect rates. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government for its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. In addition to the right of the U.S. government to terminate, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract may not be fully funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract only if, and when, appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. We obtain U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that we will continue to win competitively awarded contracts or that awarded contracts will generate sufficient net sales to result in profitability. If we are unable to comply with complex U.S. government regulations governing security and contracting practices, we could be disqualified as a supplier to the U.S government. As a supplier to the U.S. government, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security and contracting practices. Failure to comply with these procurement regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we would lose most, if not all, of our U.S. government customers and revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly. Among the potential causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. The government could investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government could adjust our contract-related costs and fees. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us, and if it were to prevail, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable by us. 17 We could be adversely affected by the results of ongoing investigations into our compliance with export regulations. In October 2007, our Florida-based subsidiary, Comtech Systems, Inc. (“CSI”), received a customs export enforcement subpoena from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (“ICE”) branch of the Department of Homeland Security. The subpoena relates to CSI’s $2.0 million contract with the Brazilian Naval Commission (the Brazil contract) and it required the production of all books, records and documents, including copies of contracts, invoices and payments related to agreements between CSI, its agent, its subcontractor and the Brazilian government. We believe that the ICE investigation is focused primarily on whether or not CSI was in compliance with export-related laws and regulations, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and the Export Administration Regulations. CSI produced documents in response to the subpoena request. Customs officials have detained certain inventory related to the Brazil contract pending resolution of this matter. We engaged outside counsel to assist CSI in its response to the subpoena and related matters and to conduct our own investigation. Based on our ongoing investigation into this matter, we believe that the detained inventory, which consists of commercial satellite equipment, was not modified or adapted in any way to meet Brazilian military requirements and was only subject to the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce and not the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of State. In addition, in order to provide certain defense services, including conducting factory acceptance testing at CSI’s Florida facility, we obtained a license (referred to as a Technical Assistance Agreement (“TAA”)) from the U.S. Department of State. We believe that the TAA authorized all activities under the Brazil contract that were subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of State. We believe that CSI made a good faith effort to comply with applicable regulations; however, we believe that CSI made inadvertent administrative errors resulting in a TAA that did not become effective on a timely basis. The administrative errors relate primarily to the execution of non-disclosure agreements (“NDA”) with certain third country national employees of CSI’s agent. These individuals have now signed appropriate NDAs, and, in December 2007, CSI filed an amended TAA with the U.S. Department of State. CSI has requested that the U.S. Department of State confirm CSI’s and our view that the Brazil contract does not require any other State Department license. In March 2008, the Enforcement Division of the U.S. Department of State informed us that they were reviewing our amended TAA. In May 2008, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Middle District of Florida informed us that, based on its conversations with the ICE agent who initiated the subpoena, it was closing its investigation into the Brazil matter. In June 2008, the ICE agent informed us that he would recommend that the detained inventory be released back to us upon the U.S. Department of State confirming our position that a State Department license for the hardware shipped was not required. In August 2008, the ICE agent informed us that the U.S. Department of State wanted to clarify certain technical matters and, on its behalf, the ICE agent was going to interview one of our engineers. This interview occurred in September of 2008. We continue to remain cautiously optimistic that we will be able to shortly reship the Brazil inventory to our customer. In addition to their review of the Brazil contract, in March 2008, the Enforcement Division of the U.S. Department of State informed us that they sought to confirm our company-wide ITAR compliance for the five-year period ended March 2008. In response, we expanded the scope of our own investigation. In June 2008, we provided detailed information and a summary of our findings to the U.S. Department of State. In July 2008, the U.S. Department of State requested supplemental information and we responded to their request. Our findings to date indicate that there were certain instances of exports and defense services during the five-year period for which we did not have the appropriate authorization from the U.S. Department of State; however, none of those instances involved Proscribed Countries as defined by ITAR. We are awaiting additional feedback from the U.S. Department of State as it relates to all of the aforementioned matters. Since the receipt of the original Brazil subpoena in October 2007, we have engaged outside counsel and export consultants to help us assess and improve, as appropriate, our internal controls with respect to U.S. export controls laws and regulations and laws governing record keeping and dealings with foreign representatives. In addition, in connection with our August 1, 2008 acquisition of Radyne, we are expanding our export internal control assessment to include our newly acquired subsidiaries. To date, we have noted opportunities for improving our procedures to comply with such laws and regulations, including at our newly acquired Radyne subsidiaries and are in the process of making improvements. 18 During fiscal 2008, we have taken numerous steps to significantly improve our export control processes, including the hiring of additional employees who are knowledgeable and experienced with ITAR and the engagement of an outside export consultant to conduct additional training. We are also in the process of implementing enhanced formal company-wide ITAR control procedures, including at our newly acquired Radyne subsidiaries. Because our assessments are continuing, we expect to remediate, improve and enhance our internal controls relating to exports throughout fiscal 2009. Because the above matters are ongoing, we cannot determine the ultimate outcome of these matters. Violations of U.S. export control-related laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties and/or result in an injunction against us, all of which could, in the aggregate, materially impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. Should we identify a material weakness relating to our compliance, the ongoing costs of remediation could be material. In addition, inventory related to the Brazil contract (including the inventory that has been detained) had a net book value of $1.1 million as of July 31, 2008. If this inventory is permanently seized or not returned to us timely, or we can not resell the inventory to other customers, we would be required to write-off the value of this inventory in a future accounting period. Our dependence on international sales and international sales agents may adversely affect us. U.S. export laws may also restrict our ability to sell our products abroad which reduces our ability to obtain sales from foreign customers. Sales for use by international customers (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that will be sold to international customers) represented approximately 26.7%, 26.2% and 35.6% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 21.4% of our backlog at July 31, 2008 consisted of orders for use by foreign customers. We expect that international sales (including sales from Radyne) will continue to be a substantial portion of our consolidated net sales. These sales expose us to certain risks, including barriers to trade, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which may make our products less price-competitive), political and economic instability, exposure to public health epidemics, availability of suitable export financing, tariff regulations, and other U.S. and foreign regulations that may apply to the export of our products and the generally greater difficulties of doing business abroad. We attempt to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign countries by seeking subcontracts with large systems suppliers, contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, advance or milestone payments and irrevocable letters of credit in our favor. However, we may not be able to reduce the economic risk of doing business in foreign countries, in all instances. In such cases, billed and unbilled receivables relating to international sales are subject to increased collectibility risk and may result in significant write-offs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, foreign defense contracts generally contain provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the government. In some countries, we may rely upon one international sales agent. We attempt to reduce our reliance on sales agents by establishing additional foreign sales offices and by engaging, where practicable, more than one independent sales representative in a territory. Certain of our products and systems may require licenses from U.S. government agencies for export from the U.S., and some of our products are not permitted to be exported. In addition, in certain cases, U.S. export controls also severely limit unlicensed technical discussions such as with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, in cases where we may need a license, it may reduce our ability to compete against a non-U.S. domiciled foreign company who may not be subject to the same U.S. laws. We cannot be sure of our ability to gain any licenses that may be required to export our products, and failure to receive required licenses could materially reduce our ability to sell our products outside the U.S. 19 We have significant operations in Florida and California, and other locations, which could be materially and adversely impacted, in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our telecommunications transmission segment designs and manufactures our over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems out of two facilities located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred in the past. As of August 1, 2008, our RF microwave amplifiers segment manufactures and designs traveling wave tube amplifier and klystron amplifiers in Santa Clara, California, close to major earthquake fault lines. Our operations in these and other locations (such as in our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona and our mobile data communication segment’s network operations center located in Germantown, Maryland), could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. All of our businesses are subject to rapid technological change; we rely upon licensed technology for some of our products and we must keep pace with changes to compete successfully. We are engaged in businesses characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product announcements and enhancements, and changing customer demands. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render any of our products and services obsolete or non-competitive. The technology used in our products and services evolves rapidly, and our business position depends, in large part, on the continuous refinement of our scientific and engineering expertise and the development, either through internal research and development or acquisitions, of new or enhanced products and technologies. We may not have the economic or technological resources to be successful in such efforts and we may not be able to identify and respond to technological improvements made by our competitors in a timely or cost-effective fashion. Our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third-party. A significant technological breakthrough by others, including smaller competitors or new firms, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Reductions in telecommunications equipment and systems spending may negatively affect our revenues, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets. For the last several years, the U.S. and global economies have been growing and our revenues and profits have increased as our customers have increased their spending on telecommunications equipment and systems. However, during fiscal 2008, adverse conditions in the U.S. consumer mortgage market have negatively impacted the global economy and nearly all businesses, including ours, are facing uncertain economic environments. Some economists are now predicting a recession. Our businesses have been negatively affected in the past by uncertain economic environments both in the overall market, and more specifically in the telecommunications sector. As a result of the current global economic conditions, our customers may reduce their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems. As a consequence, our current customers and other prospective customers may postpone, reduce or even forego the purchase of our products and systems, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets. Although we remain confident that the long-term demand drivers for our businesses, including our satellite earth station products, remain strong, it is currently difficult to assess whether or not future bookings will meet or exceed the levels experienced in fiscal 2008. 20 Our mobile data communications business is subject to unique risks. Our mobile data communications business segment is reliant upon just a few contracts. In addition to the other risk factors described in this section, the risk factors applicable to our mobile data communications business include the following: · Our mobile data communications segment’s revenues and profits are primarily derived from the Movement Tracking Systems (“MTS”) contract and the U.S. Army’s Force XXI Battle Command, Brigade and Below command and control systems (also known as Blue Force Tracking (“BFT”)) contract. Both of these contracts can be terminated at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Because both of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts, the U.S. Army is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under the contracts. · Our MTS and BFT contracts are not subject to automatic renewal or extension upon their scheduled expiration on July 12, 2010 and December 31, 2011, respectively. In addition, the U.S. Army may decide to award future orders, at any time, to other parties. If another party is awarded future orders or if one or both of our contracts are not renewed, extended or if we fail to succeed in a recompete process, it would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. · In fiscal 2007, the BFT program’s prime contractor, Northrop Grumman Corporation, awarded a contract to a competitor to develop a new prototype network and related equipment to increase network capacity for the U.S. Army’s BFT tracking system. Although we are currently working closely with the U.S. Army to provide additional enhancements to our network capabilities and communications performance and believe that we have and are developing new products that provide compelling technological advancement to our existing products and that are, importantly, backwards compatible with the large number of existing BFT and MTS systems in active deployment today, it is possible that the U.S. Army (including our MTS customers) will ultimately cease or reduce its ordering levels of our products and services. If this occurs, it would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. · We currently anticipate that we will continue to maintain a substantial inventory in order to provide products to our customers on a timely basis. Certain components required in our production process have purchasing lead-times of four months or longer, and the delivery timetables on our contracts require us to provide products in shorter timeframes after we receive an order. If forecasted orders are not received, we may be left with large inventories of slow moving or unusable parts or terminals that would result in an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · We lease the satellite capacity necessary to operate our system from a limited number of third party satellite networks. Our ability to grow and remain profitable depends on the ability of our satellite network providers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. If our satellite network providers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. · Our systems occasionally experience downtime. All satellite communications are subject to the risk that a satellite or ground station failure or a natural disaster may interrupt service. Interruptions in service could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Should we be required to restore service on another system in the event of a satellite failure, our costs could increase which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. · To date, commercial satellite-based mobile data applications have not been a material part of our business. In addition, we do not have extensive experience designing, manufacturing or selling microsatellites and related components. Our future success in developing these markets will depend on, among other things, our ability to access the best distribution channels, the development or licensing of applications which create value for the customer and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We may have to increase our operating expenses to be successful in these markets. 21 · There are several existing and potential commercial and defense-related competitors, such as Qualcomm, Inc. and Northrop Grumman Corporation, that participate in the mobile data communications market and who have much greater financial resources than us. Existing competitors, including terrestrial-based service providers, are also aggressively pricing their products and services and may continue to do so in the future. Competitors such as ViaSat, Inc. and Harris Corporation continue to offer new value-added products and services, which we may be unable to match on a timely or cost effective basis. Companies, such as Surrey Satellite Technology, Ltd. and MicroSat Systems, Inc., compete against us in the microsatellite and related components markets. Increased competition may adversely impact margins throughout the industry. We anticipate that new competitors will also enter the mobile data communications market in the future. This could adversely impact our existing business, results of operations and financial condition and could also impair our ability to penetrate the commercial market in a significant way. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in decreased sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. We currently have a backlog of orders, mostly under contracts that the customer may modify or terminate. Almost all of the contracts in our backlog are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the customer or for default in the event that we are unable to perform under the contract. We cannot assure you that our backlog will result in net sales. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If our backlog is canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charges could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our dependence on component availability, government furnished equipment, subcontractor availability and performance and key suppliers, including the core manufacturing expertise of our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, may adversely affect us. Although we obtain certain components and subsystems from a single source or a limited number of sources, we believe that most components and subsystems are available from alternative suppliers and subcontractors. A significant interruption in the delivery of such items, however, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have increased the company-wide dependency on our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona, which is part of our telecommunications transmission segment. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, intersegment sales by the telecommunications transmission segment to the mobile data communications segment were $123.8 million, $78.3 million and $55.7 million, respectively. Intersegment sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 by the telecommunications transmission segment to the RF microwave amplifiers segment were $16.0 million, $6.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively. If a natural disaster or other business interruption occurred, we do not have immediate access to other manufacturing facilities, and as a result, our business would suffer. In addition, if our high-volume technology manufacturing center is unable to produce sufficient product or maintain quality, it could have a material adverse impact on all three of our business segments, our results of operations and our financial condition. We intend to continue to increase our company-wide dependency on our high-volume technology manufacturing center. For example, the success of the Radyne acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated efficiencies and cost savings, primarily through the result of closing Radyne’s Phoenix, Arizona, manufacturing facility and integrating that operation into our Tempe, Arizona facility. We also intend to continue to seek contracts with third parties to outsource a portion of their manufacturing to us. No assurances can be given that we will be able to achieve these efficiencies and cost savings. In the past, the U.S. government experienced delays in the receipt of certain components that are ultimately provided to us for incorporation into our satellite transceivers that we ship to the U.S. government. If we do not receive these government furnished components in a timely manner, we could experience delays in fulfilling orders from our customers. 22 Contract cost growth on our fixed price contracts and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business and other risks. A substantial portion of our products and services are sold under fixed price contracts. This means that we bear the risk of unanticipated technological, manufacturing, supply or other problems, price increases or other increases in the cost of performance. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to the customer are incurred. This cost growth can occur if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect, or if estimates to complete increase. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse regulatory changes could impair our ability to sell products. Our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that must comply with various U.S. government regulations, including those of the FCC, as well as international laws and regulations. Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation and availability of frequency spectrum, and in the military standards and specifications that define the current satellite networking environment, could materially harm our business by (i) restricting development efforts by us and our customers, (ii) making our current products less attractive or obsolete, or (iii) increasing the opportunity for additional competition. Changes in, or our failure to comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially harm our business. In addition, the increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards and reassign bandwidth for these products and services. The reduced number of available frequencies for other products and services and the time delays inherent in the government approval process of new products and services have caused and may continue to cause our customers to cancel, postpone or reschedule their installation of communications systems including their satellite, over-the-horizon microwave, or terrestrial line-of-sight microwave communication systems. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of products to our customers. The EU has adopted two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. The first of these is the Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive, which directs EU member states to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electrical and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal of certain products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. The EU has also adopted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the EU after July 1, 2006. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the U.S., China and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. There can be no assurance that such existing or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our Radyne acquisition could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We have goodwill and intangible assets of $31.9 million recorded on our balance sheet as of July 31, 2008. This amount will materially increase as a result of the Radyne acquisition. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Changes in our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in an impairment of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. In addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with the Radyne acquisition, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. 23 The loss of key technical or management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the continued contributions of key technical management personnel, including the key corporate and operating unit management at each of our subsidiaries. Many of our key personnel, particularly the key engineers of our subsidiaries, would be difficult to replace, and are not subject to employment or noncompetition agreements. Our growth and future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations is intense. Although we believe that we have been successful to date in recruiting and keeping key personnel, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we will need to continue to grow and operate profitably. Also, the management skills that have been appropriate for us in the past may not continue to be appropriate if we continue to grow and diversify. Our business and operating results may be negatively impacted if we are unable to continue to manage growth of our businesses. Certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In addition to anticipated organic growth, our revenues are expected to significantly increase in fiscal 2009 as a result of the Radyne acquisition. In order to manage this growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. We also need to continue to recruit and retain personnel and train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. If we are not able to timely and effectively manage our growth and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete or that our competitors will not develop new technologies and products that are more effective than our own. We expect the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will encourage new competitors to enter the market. Also, although the implementation of advanced telecommunications services is in its early stages in many developing countries, we believe competition may intensify as businesses and foreign governments realize the market potential of telecommunications services. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution resources greater than ours. Protection of our intellectual property is limited; we are subject to the risk of third party claims of infringement. Our DoubleTalk® Carrier-in-Carrier® bandwidth compression technology is licensed by us from a third-party. Our businesses rely in large part upon our proprietary scientific and engineering know-how and production techniques. Historically, patents have not been an important part of our protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon the laws of unfair competition, restrictions in licensing agreements and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. We limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. These efforts allow us to rely upon the knowledge and experience of our management and technical personnel to market our existing products and to develop new products. The departure of any of our key management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We believe that we own or have licensed all intellectual property rights necessary for the operation of our businesses as currently contemplated. If the technology we use is found to infringe on protected technology, we could be required to change our business practices, license the protected technology, and/or pay damages or other compensation to the infringed party. If we are unable to license protected technology that we use in our business or if we are required to change our business practices, we could be prohibited from making and selling our products or providing certain telecommunications services. 24 Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations and we may be subject to environmental liabilities. We engage in manufacturing and are subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products, such as the fabrication of fiberglass antennas by our Comtech Antenna Systems, Inc. subsidiary. We are also subject to the RoHS directive which restricts the use of lead, mercury and other substances in electrical and electronic products. The failure to comply with current or future environmental requirements could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the handling, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances by us or our predecessors may have resulted, or could in the future result, in contamination requiring investigation or remediation, or leading to other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 Federal income tax returns were recently audited by the Internal Revenue Service and our fiscal 2006 tax return has been selected for audit. Other returns may be selected for audit in the future. Although adjustments relating to our fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 tax return were immaterial, a resulting tax assessment or settlement for fiscal 2006 and other periods that may be selected for future audit could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, including Canada. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax examinations and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recently enacted securities laws and regulations are increasing our costs and possible future changes to financial reporting standards may result in incremental costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. These changes resulted in increased costs and as we grow, we expect to see our costs increase. The SEC has promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). If we are required to change our financial reporting standards and policies to comply with IFRS, our costs could significantly increase. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) has revised its requirements for companies, such as us, that are listed on the NASDAQ. These changes are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs including making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance or maintain our current liability coverage. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Identification of material weaknesses in internal controls (including those at our newly acquired subsidiaries at Radyne), if identified, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered accountants are required to attest to and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. 25 Changes in financial accounting standards related to stock-based awards are expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results. In fiscal 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” a revised standard that requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee and director stock-based awards using a fair value method. The adoption of the new standard had a significant effect on our reported earnings, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the value of stock-based awards. As a result, the ongoing application of this standard could impact the future value of our common stock and may result in greater stock price volatility. In addition, since our inception, we have used stock-based awards as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock-based awards directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. To the extent that this accounting standard makes it less attractive to grant stock-based awards to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks from the uncertainty of prevailing political conditions. Current global political conditions are uncertain. For example, the winner of the November 2008 U.S. presidential election could significantly change policies or priorities which could have a negative impact on our business. Because the accuracy of our budgeting and forecasting process relies on stable political conditions, the prevailing political environment renders estimates of future income and expenses even more difficult than usual to formulate. The future direction of the political environment could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, and threats of war elsewhere may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Terrorist attacks, the U.S. government’s and other governments’ responses thereto, and threats of war could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any escalation in these events or similar or future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. In addition, these could have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general. Provisions in our corporate documents, stockholder rights plan, and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Comtech. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition involving Comtech that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, we have a classified board and the employment contract with our chief executive officer and contracts with other of our executive officers provide for substantial payments in certain circumstances or in the event of a change of control of Comtech. We also adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions could prevent us from being acquired. In addition, our certificate of incorporation grants our Board of Directors the authority to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of and issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. Although we have no present intention to issue shares of preferred stock, such an issuance of any class or series of our preferred stock could have rights which would adversely affect the voting power of the common stock or which could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of Comtech. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, this statute provides that except in certain limited circumstances a corporation shall not engage in any “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Comtech. 26 Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. The higher level of indebtedness resulting from the issuance of our 2.0% convertible senior notes increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our 2.0% convertible senior notes, may, at our option, be redeemable for cash on or after February 4, 2009. Holders of our 2.0% convertible senior notes have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding 2.0% convertible senior notes on February 1, 2011, February 1, 2014 and February 1, 2019, and upon certain events, including a change in control. Should we decide to redeem some or all of the outstanding 2.0% convertible senior notes, or if the holders of our 2.0% convertible senior notes require us to repurchase some or all of the outstanding 2.0% convertible senior notes, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt; make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate significantly in the future as well. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock are described throughout the Risk Factors section and include: · strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestures; · issuance of potentially dilutive equity-type securities · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · receipt or non-receipt of substantial orders for products and services; · quality deficiencies in services or products; · results of technological innovations; · new commercial products; · changes in recommendations of securities analysts; · government regulations; · proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; · changes in economic conditions generally, particularly in the telecommunications sector; · changes in securities market conditions, generally; · energy blackouts; · acts of terrorism or war; · inflation or deflation; and · rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. Shortfalls in our sales or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 