Risk Factors The following factors could affect the company’s operating results and should be considered in evaluating the company. The company must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of the company’s food products depends on the company’s ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. The company introduces new products and improved products in all of its business segments from time to time and incurs significant development and marketing costs. If the company’s products fail to meet consumer preference, then the company’s strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. If the company does not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food industry, its profitability could decrease. The company’s success depends in part on its ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and be efficient in the highly competitive food industry. The company is currently implementing profit-enhancing initiatives that impact its marketing, sales, operations and information systems functions. These initiatives include: elimination of duplicative costs and overhead; consolidation of selected plants and support functions; efforts to streamline and improve the company’s ability to do business with its customers, distributors and brokers; and realignment of business organizations. If the company does not continue to manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, its competitiveness and its profitability could decrease. Increased competition may result in reduced sales for the company. The food industry is highly competitive, and increased competition can reduce sales for the company. The consolidation of the company’s customers has resulted in large sophisticated customers with increased buying power. The company’s customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of resisting price increases and operating with reduced inventories. These customers may also in the future use more of their shelf space, currently used for company products, for their private label products. If the larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength or less shelf space for company products, the company’s profitability could decline. The company may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact its profitability. The company sells food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of food products. The company may be subject to liability if the 5 consumption of any of its products causes injury, illness or death. In addition, the company will voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. In the past, the company has issued recalls and has from time to time been involved in lawsuits relating to its food products. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact the company’s profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that company products caused illness or injury could adversely affect the company’s reputation with existing and potential customers and its corporate and brand image. Commodity price increases will increase operating costs and may reduce profits. The company uses many different commodities including wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork, poultry and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price increases will result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. The company may not be able to increase its product prices to offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and profitability. The company has many years’ experience in hedging against commodity price increases; however, hedging practices reduce but do not eliminate the risk of increased operating costs from commodity price increases. For example, higher commodity prices in fiscal 2004 and 2005, which were not fully offset by higher selling prices, negatively affected the company’s operating profit. The company’s information technology resources must provide efficient connections between its business functions, or its results of operations will be negatively impacted. Each year the company engages in several billion dollars of transactions with its customers and vendors. Because the amount of dollars involved is so significant, the company’s information technology resources must provide connections among its marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer services and accounting functions. If the company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain the related computerized and manual control processes, it could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions or damage resulting from security breaches. In 2005, in connection with its implementation of Project Nucleus, the company’s information technology-linking initiative, the company had short-term operational challenges during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. If the company fails to comply with the many laws applicable to its business, it may incur significant fines and penalties. The company’s facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. The company’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of its products. The company’s operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. 