Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has significant asbestos liability and funding exposure. The Company has significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims. The Company has entered into settlement agreements with various asbestos claimants totaling in excess of $491 million. For further information regarding the Company’s asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategy to resolve its asbestos liability, please see Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Notes 1 and 17 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 11 There can be no assurance that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan (as hereinafter defined) or any other plan of reorganization, if proposed, will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation, that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan will not be modified further, that the Fourth Amended Joint Plan or any other plan will receive necessary court approvals from the District Court, that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that any plan will be confirmed, that any plan, if confirmed, will become effective, that there will be sufficient funds to pay for continued proceedings with respect to any plan of reorganization or that the order approving the Multi-Insurer Settlement (as hereinafter defined) will become a final order, thereby causing the termination of the appeal of the District Court Order (as hereinafter defined) before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the “Third Circuit”). It also is unclear whether any other person might successfully propose and confirm a plan or what any such plan, if confirmed, would ultimately provide, and whether the District Court would approve such a plan. Any plan of reorganization pursued by the Company will be subject to numerous conditions, approvals and other requirements, including District Court approval, and there can be no assurance that such conditions, approvals and other requirements will be satisfied or obtained. Confirmation of any plan of reorganization will depend on the Company obtaining exit financing to provide it with sufficient liquidity to fund obligations upon the plan becoming effective. If the Company’s cash flow from operations is materially less than anticipated, and/or if the costs in connection with seeking confirmation of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan or any other plan of reorganization or in connection with the New Jersey State Court (the “State Court”) insurance coverage litigation discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are materially more than anticipated, the Company may be unable to obtain exit financing which, when combined with net cash provided from operating activities, would provide it with sufficient funds. Such a circumstance would likely result in the Company not being able to confirm the Fourth Amended Joint Plan or have such plan become effective. Some additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from the Company's goals for resolving its asbestos liability through any plan of reorganization include: (i) the future cost and timing of estimated asbestos liabilities and payments, (ii) the availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement from insurance companies that underwrote the applicable insurance policies for the Company for asbestos-related claims, (iii) the costs relating to the execution and implementation of any plan of reorganization pursued by the Company, (iv) timely agreement with other creditors, or classes of creditors, that exist or may emerge, (v) satisfaction of the conditions and obligations under the Company's outstanding debt instruments, (vi) the response from time to time of the lenders, customers, suppliers a nd other constituencies of the Company and American Biltrite, Inc., the Company’s controlling shareholder (“ABI”), to the ongoing process arising from the Company's strategy to settle its asbestos liability, (vii) the Company's ability to maintain debtor-in-possession financing sufficient to provide it with funding that will be needed during the pendency of its Chapter 11 case and to obtain exit financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed for its operations after emerging from the bankruptcy process, in each case, on reasonable terms, (viii) timely obtaining sufficient creditor and court 12 approval of any reorganization plan pursued by the Company (including the results of any relevant appeals), (ix) costs of, developments in and the outcome of insurance coverage litigation pending in the State Court involving Congoleum and certain insurers, (x) compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, including Section 524(g), and (xi) the possible adoption of another party's plan of reorganization which may prove to be unfeasible. In any event, if the Company is not successful in obtaining sufficient creditor and court approval of its amended plan of reorganization, such failure would have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, if confirmed and effective, holders of existing equity securities will receive nothing on account of their interests. Under the terms of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, existing Class A and Class B common shares of Congoleum will be cancelled when the plan takes effect and holders of those shares will not receive anything on account of their cancelled shares. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, which will affect a stockholder’s ability to sell the Company’s stock or the price for which it can be sold; the Company's common stock will be cancelled if the Fourth Amended Joint Plan is confirmed and becomes effective. There has been and may continue to be, at least for the immediate future, a limited public market for the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Class A common stock was delisted by the American Stock Exchange on February 19, 2008 because it did not meet Amex listing standards for share value, share price and aggregate market capitalization. Since February 19, 2008, the Company’s common stock has not been listed on any securities exchange or on an automated dealer quotation system. Accordingly, there is a limited trading market for the Company’s shares. Under the terms of the Fourth Amended Joint Plan, if confirmed and effective, the Company's common stock will be cancelled. The Company may incur substantial liability for environmental, product and general liability claims other than asbestos-related claims, and its insurance coverage and its likely recoverable insurance proceeds may be substantially less than the liability incurred by the Company for these claims. Environmental Liabilities: Due to the nature of the Company's business and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by the Company, the Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, disposal, handling, emission, transportation and discharge into the environment of hazardous substances. The Company has historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company-owned sites. The Company will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future for costs related to prior activities at its facilities and third party sites, and for ongoing costs to comply with existing 13 environmental laws, and such amounts may be substantial. There is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, the Company is unable to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws and regulations may require or cause the Company to modify or curtail its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Product and General Liabilities: In the ordinary course of its business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims (in addition to asbestos-related claims) and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition if the Company is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy unfavorable judgments or settlements relating to these matters, or the C ompany is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. Limited Liability Insurance: As a result of various insurance settlement agreements entered into in connection with its reorganization, and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of settlement amounts, the Company's insurers have bought back, and the Company has released its rights in, certain primary liability insurance policies and substantially all excess general liability policies (except those issued by Chartis (formerly AIG)) issued prior to January 1, 1986, as well as many such policies issued on or after that date. Subject to their terms, conditions, and underlying and upper limits, these policies might otherwise have provided coverage for liabilities that may be discharged by the Company. It is expected that all proceeds from these insurance policy settlement agreements will be paid to the Plan Trust. While a $3 million reserve fund from such proceeds will be established to cover non-asbestos claims, such reserve may not be adequate to cover any liabilities that may arise and the Company may face substantial uninsured environmental liability obligations. The Company is dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or an increase in its raw material costs. The Company’s business is dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers. The principal raw materials used by the Company in its manufacture of sheet and tile flooring are vinyl resins, plasticizers, latex, limestone, stabilizers, cellulose paper fibers, urethane and transfer print film. The Company purchases most of these raw materials from multiple sources. Although the Company has generally not had difficulty in obtaining its requirements for these materials, it has periodically experienced significant price increases for some of these materials. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of specialty resin and other raw materials, there can be no assurances tha t it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. 14 The Company believes that suitable alternative suppliers are generally available for substantially all of its raw material requirements, although quantities of certain materials available from alternative suppliers may be in limited supply and production trials may be required to qualify new materials for use. The Company does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print film, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to the Company's specifications. Although no loss of this source of supply is anticipated, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of some of the Company's products. In an attempt to protect against this risk of loss of supply, the Company maintains a raw material inventory and continually seek s to develop new sources which will provide continuity of supply for its raw material requirements. In addition, the Company could incur significant increases in the costs of its raw materials due to market conditions, energy costs, and other factors. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in the costs of its raw materials to its customers, the Company’s ability to do so is, to a large extent, dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for its products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and some of its competitors have greater resources and broader distribution channels than the Company. The market for the Company's products is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from three other manufacturers in North America and, to a lesser extent, foreign manufacturers. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital than the Company. Furthermore, one of the Company's major competitors has successfully confirmed a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Having shed much of its pre-filing asbestos and other liabilities, that competitor may have a competitive cost advantage over the Company. In addition, in order to maintain its competitive position, the Company may need to make substantial investmen ts in its business, including its product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company's products and in the loss of the Company's market share for its products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of the Company's industry, the Company may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of its products, which could result in the Company incurring significant operating losses if its expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of the Company's sales. 15 The Company’s business is subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to the remodeling and housing industries. The Company is subject to the effects of general economic conditions. The current economic environment has had and continues to have serious negative consequences for the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the Company's business is cyclical and is affected by the economic factors that affect the remodeling and housing industries in general and the manufactured housing industry specifically, including the availability of credit, consumer confidence, changes in interest rates, market demand and general economic conditions. The Company has experienced a very significant decline in sales as a result of weakness in the housing and manufactured housing/RV market and general economy. The Company may experience further sales declines resulting from any further deterioration in the housing market and a further decline in consumer confidence, and there can be no assurances as to the timing or extent of any recovery in these markets. The Company could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's facilities. The Company's business depends upon its ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of its customers and the end users of the Company's products. If the Company were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adv erse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The reductions in its inventory levels that the Company has made during 2009 in response to market conditions could make the adverse impact of any disruption more pronounced. The Company offers limited warranties on its products which could result in the Company incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company offers a limited warranty on all of its products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, the Company offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics, which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. 16 The Company is heavily dependent upon its distributors to sell the Company's products and the loss of a major distributor could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company currently sells its products through approximately 13 distributors providing approximately 42 distribution points in the United States and Canada, as well as directly to a limited number of mass market retailers. The Company considers its distribution network very important to maintaining its competitive position. Although the Company has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor would have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors, LaSalle-Bristol Corporation and Mohawk Industries, Inc. La Salle-Bristol Corporation serves as the Company's manufactured housing market distributor, and Mohawk Industries, Inc. serves as its retail market distributor. These two distributors accounted for approximately 60% and 63% of the Company's net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Stockholder votes are controlled by ABI; Congoleum’s interests may not be the same as ABI’s interests. ABI owns a majority (approximately 55% as of December 31, 2009) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, representing a 65.5% voting interest. As a result, ABI can elect all of the Company’s directors and can control the vote on all matters that require shareholder or Board of Director approval. In addition, certain officers of Congoleum are officers of ABI and members of the family group that owns a controlling interest in ABI. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 