Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has significant asbestos liability and funding exposure, and its most recent proposed amended plan of reorganization has been ruled unconfirmable as a matter of law. As more fully set forth in Notes 1 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company has significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims. The Company has entered into settlement agreements with various asbestos claimants totaling in excess of $491 million. The Bankruptcy Court issued a ruling in February 2007 stating that these claimants cannot receive more value as a result of their pre-petition settlements than is afforded to other, unsettled, asbestos claimants. The Company has resumed global plan mediation discussions to resolve this and certain other plan issues, and has also appealed the Bankruptcy Court ruling to the District Court. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its appeal or in negotiating a new plan of reorganization that resolves the issues raised in the Bankruptcy Court's ruling with respect to the Tenth Plan, that the Company will obtain approval to solicit acceptances of a new plan of reorganization, that the Company will receive the acceptances necessary for confirmation of a plan of reorganization, that any proposed plan will not be modified further, that a plan will receive necessary court approvals from the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court, or that such approvals will be received in a timely fashion, that a plan will be confirmed, that a plan, if confirmed, will become effective, or that there will be sufficient funds to pay for continued litigation over any plan of reorganization. It also is unclear whether any other person will attempt to propose a plan or what any such plan would provide or propose, and whether the Bankruptcy Court would approve such a plan. 11 The terms of any new plan of reorganization are likely to be materially different from the Tenth and Eleventh Plans, and could be amended or modified as a result of further negotiations with various parties. The Company expects that it will take until some time late in the third quarter of 2007 at the earliest to obtain confirmation of any plan of reorganization. Under the terms of the Eleventh Plan, on the effective date of the Eleventh Plan (the "Effective Date"), the Plan Trust would have provided a loan to Congoleum, which loan was intended, when combined with cash on hand and available drawings under the revolving credit facility, to provide Congoleum with $18 million of total liquidity, on a pro forma basis as of December 31, 2006 (the "Plan Trust Note"). The total liquidity required by Congoleum, and thus the amount of the Plan Trust Note, would have been as mutually agreed among the ACC, the FCR, the representatives of holders of pre-petition secured asbestos claims (the "Claimants' Representative") and Congoleum. The proceeds of the Plan Trust Note would only have been used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The Plan Trust Note would have been due and payable on December 31, 2011, would have borne interest at 10% per annum payable semi-annually until the maturity date, and would have contained such covenants, warranties, and representations as agreed among Congoleum, the ACC, the FCR and the Claimants' Representative. The principal amount of the Plan Trust Note, which would have been subject to review and approval by the FCR and the ACC, could not have exceeded $14 million unless both the FCR and ACC agreed. There can be no assurance that a new amended plan will provide Congoleum a similar liquidity source, or that Congoleum will be able to obtain such liquidity from an alternative source. Some additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from the Company's goals for resolving its asbestos liability through an amended plan of reorganization include: (i) the future cost and timing of estimated asbestos liabilities and payments, (ii) the availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement from insurance companies that underwrote the applicable insurance policies for the Company for asbestos-related claims, (iii) the costs relating to the execution and implementation of any plan of reorganization pursued by the Company, (iv) timely agreement with other creditors, or classes of creditors, that exist or may emerge, (v) satisfaction of the conditions and obligations under the Company's outstanding debt instruments, (vi) the response from time to time of the lenders, customers, suppliers and other constituencies of the Company and ABI to the ongoing process arising from the Company's strategy to settle its asbestos liability, (vii) the Company's ability to maintain debtor-in-possession financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed during the pendency of its Chapter 11 case and to obtain exit financing sufficient to provide it with funding that may be needed for its operations after emerging from the bankruptcy process, in each case, on reasonable terms, (viii) timely creditor and court approval (including the results of any relevant appeals) of any reorganization plan pursued by the Company and the court overruling any objections to the Company's reorganization plan that may be filed, (ix) costs of, developments in and the outcome of insurance coverage litigation pending in New Jersey state court involving Congoleum and certain insurers, (x) compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, including Section 524(g), and (xi) the possible adoption of another party's plan of reorganization which may prove to be unfeasible. In any event, if the Company is not successful in obtaining sufficient creditor and court approval of its amended plan of reorganization, such failure would have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 In addition, federal legislation has been proposed that, if adopted, would establish a national trust to provide compensation to victims of asbestos-related injuries and channel all current and future asbestos-related personal injury claims to that trust. Due to the uncertainties involved with the pending legislation, the Company does not know what effects any such legislation, if adopted, may have upon its business, results of operations or financial condition, or upon any plan of reorganization it may decide to pursue. To date, the Company has expended significant amounts to resolve its asbestos liability relating to its proposed amended plan of reorganization. To the extent any federal legislation is enacted, which does not credit the Company for amounts paid by the Company pursuant to a plan of reorganization or requires the Company to pay significant amounts to any national trust or otherwise, such legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the Company's significant liability and funding exposure for asbestos claims, there can be no assurance that if it were to incur any unforecasted or unexpected liability or disruption to its business or operations it would be able to withstand that liability or disruption and continue as an operating company. For further information regarding the Company's asbestos liability, insurance coverage and strategy to resolve its asbestos liability, please See Notes 1 and 17 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may incur substantial liability for environmental, product and general liability claims in addition to asbestos-related claims, and its insurance coverage and its likely recoverable insurance proceeds may be substantially less than the liability incurred by the Company for these claims. Environmental Liabilities. Due to the nature of the Company's business and certain of the substances which are or have been used, produced or discharged by the Company, the Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, disposal, handling, emission, transportation and discharge into the environment of hazardous substances. The Company has historically expended substantial amounts for compliance with existing environmental laws or regulations, including environmental remediation costs at both third-party sites and Company-owned sites. The Company will continue to be required to expend amounts in the future for costs related to prior activities at its facilities and third party sites, and for ongoing costs to comply with existing environmental laws and such amounts may be substantial. There is no certainty that these amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition because, as a result of environmental requirements becoming increasingly strict, the Company is unable to determine the ultimate cost of compliance with environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, in addition to potentially having to pay substantial amounts for compliance, future environmental laws or regulations may require or cause the Company to modify or curtail its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Product and General Liabilities. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, product liability claims (in addition to asbestos-related claims) and other matters. In some of these proceedings, plaintiffs may seek to recover large and sometimes unspecified amounts and the matters may remain unresolved for several years. These matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition if the Company is unable to successfully defend against or settle these matters, its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy unfavorable judgments or settlements relating to these matters, or the Company is unable to collect insurance proceeds relating to these matters. The Company is dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers and would be harmed if there were a significant, prolonged disruption in supply or increase in its raw material costs. The Company's business is dependent upon a continuous supply of raw materials from third party suppliers. The principal raw materials used by the Company in its manufacture of sheet and tile flooring are vinyl resins, plasticizers, latex, limestone, stabilizers, cellulose paper fibers, urethane and transfer print film. The Company purchases most of these raw materials from multiple sources. Although the Company has historically been able to obtain its requirements for these materials, it has occasionally experienced significant price increases for some of these materials, and has periodically needed to find new sources for cost, quality or sufficiency of supply. Raw material prices in 2004 and 2005 increased significantly, and supplies of certain materials, particularly vinyl resins, remained tight in the first half of 2006 due to several factors, including the effect of hurricanes in 2005. Although the Company has been able to obtain sufficient supplies of specialty resins and other raw materials, there can be no assurances that it may not experience difficulty in the future, particularly if global supply conditions deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins. The Company believes that suitable alternative suppliers are generally available for substantially all of its raw material requirements, although quantities of certain materials available from alternative suppliers may be in limited supply and production trials may be required to qualify new materials for use. The Company does not have readily available alternative sources of supply for specific designs of transfer print film, which are produced utilizing print cylinders engraved to the Company's specifications. Although no loss of this source of supply is anticipated, replacement could take a considerable period of time and interrupt production of some of the Company's products. In an attempt to protect against this risk of loss of supply, the Company maintains a raw material inventory and continually seeks to develop new sources which will provide continuity of supply for its raw material requirements. However, there is no certainty that the Company's maintenance of its raw material inventory or its ongoing efforts to develop new sources of supply would be successful in avoiding a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition if it were to realize an extended interruption in the supply of its raw materials. 14 In addition, the Company could incur significant increases in the costs of its raw materials. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in the costs of its raw materials to its customers, the Company's ability to do so is, to a large extent, dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for its products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During those periods of time, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company operates in a highly competitive flooring industry and some of its competitors have greater resources and broader distribution channels than the Company. The market for the Company's products is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from three other manufacturers in North America and, to a lesser extent, foreign manufacturers. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial and other resources and access to capital than the Company. Furthermore, one of the Company's major competitors has successfully confirmed a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Having shed much of its pre-filing asbestos and other liabilities, that competitor may have a competitive cost advantage over the Company. In addition, in order to maintain its competitive position, the Company may need to make substantial investments in its business, including its product development, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company's products and in the loss of the Company's market share for its products. Moreover, due to the competitive nature of the Company's industry, the Company may be commercially restricted from raising or even maintaining the sales prices of its products, which could result in the Company incurring significant operating losses if its expenses were to increase or otherwise represent an increased percentage of the Company's sales. The Company's business is subject to general economic conditions and conditions specific to the remodeling and housing industries. The Company is subject to the effects of general economic conditions. A sustained general economic slowdown could have serious negative consequences for the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the Company's business is cyclical and is affected by the economic factors that affect the remodeling and housing industries in general and the manufactured housing industry specifically, including the availability of credit, consumer confidence, changes in interest rates, market demand and general economic conditions. The Company has experienced a significant decline in sales as a result of weakness in the housing market. The Company may experience further sales declines resulting from this weakness, which may be compounded by contraction in the subprime lending industry. 15 The Company could realize shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from unexpected disruptions of operations at any of the Company's facilities. The Company's business depends upon its ability to timely manufacture and deliver products that meet the needs of its customers and the end users of the Company's products. If the Company were to realize an unexpected, significant and prolonged disruption of its operations at any of its facilities, including disruptions in its manufacturing operations, it could result in shipment delays of its products, depletion of its inventory as a result of reduced production and increased production costs as a result of taking actions in an attempt to cure the disruption or carry on its business while the disruption remains. Any resulting delay, depletion or increased production cost could result in increased costs, lower revenues and damaged customer and product end user relations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company offers limited warranties on its products which could result in the Company incurring significant costs as a result of warranty claims. The Company offers a limited warranty on all of its products against manufacturing defects. In addition, as a part of its efforts to differentiate mid- and high-end products through color, design and other attributes, the Company offers enhanced warranties with respect to wear, moisture discoloration and other performance characteristics, which generally increase with the price of such products. If the Company were to incur a significant number of warranty claims, the resulting warranty costs could be substantial. The Company is heavily dependent upon its distributors to sell the Company's products and the loss of a major distributor of the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company currently sells its products through approximately 13 distributors providing approximately 74 distribution points in the United States and Canada, as well as directly to a limited number of mass market retailers. The Company considers its distribution network very important to maintaining its competitive position. Although the Company has more than one distributor in some of its distribution territories and actively manages its credit exposure to its distributors, the loss of a major distributor could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company derives a significant percentage of its sales from two of its distributors, LaSalle-Bristol Corporation and Mohawk Industries, Inc. LaSalle-Bristol Corporation serves as the Company's manufactured housing market distributor, and Mohawk Industries, Inc. serves as its retail market distributor. These two distributors accounted for 67% of the Company's net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. 16 The American Stock Exchange has notified Congoleum that it does not meet the minimum income and stockholders' equity requirements for continued listing of its Class A Common Stock. In April 2006, Congoleum received a letter from the American Stock Exchange (the "Amex") indicating that Congoleum is not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the Amex Company Guide, with stockholders' equity of less than $2,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; and Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Amex Company Guide, with stockholders' equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. The letter also stated that the Company must submit a plan by May 2006 advising the Amex of actions it has taken or will take to achieve compliance with the continued listing standards within eighteen months of receipt of the letter, and that this plan must be approved by the Amex, for Congoleum to maintain its listing. Congoleum submitted such a plan which was accepted by the Amex, who will continue to monitor Congoleum's progress toward compliance. There can be no assurance that Congoleum will be able to achieve such compliance, or that the Amex will remain satisfied with Congoleum's progress toward compliance. If Congoleum's Class A common stock is delisted on the Amex, it may have an adverse impact on the price and liquidity of the Company's Class A common stock. Stockholder votes are controlled by ABI; Congoleum's interests may not be the same as ABI's interests. ABI owns a majority (approximately 55% as of December 31, 2006) of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, representing a 69.4% voting interest. As a result, ABI can elect all of the Company's directors and can control the vote on all matters, including determinations such as: approval of mergers or other business combinations, sales of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, any matters submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders, issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, incurrence of debt other than in the ordinary course of business, the selection and tenure of the Company's Chief Executive Officer, payment of dividends with respect to common stock or other equity securities, and other matters that might be favorable to ABI. ABI's ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for Congoleum or any other change in control could have an adverse effect on the market price for the Company's common stock. In addition, certain officers of Congoleum are officers of ABI and members of the family group that owns a controlling interest in ABI. Possible future sales of shares by ABI could adversely affect the market for Congoleum's stock. ABI may sell shares of the Company's common stock in compliance with the federal securities laws. By virtue of ABI's current control of Congoleum, ABI could sell large amounts of shares of the Company's common stock by causing the Company to file a registration statement that would allow them to sell shares more easily. In addition, ABI could sell shares of the Company's common stock without registration. Although the Company can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of the Company's common stock, sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. If ABI sells or transfers shares of the Company's common stock as a block, another person or entity could become the Company's controlling stockholder. 17 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 