Item 1A. Risk Factors You are encouraged to read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, however there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. Our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. The branded food industry is intensely competitive and our products are subject to significant price competition. From time to time, we need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures or to maintain market share. Such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. Any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices when raw material costs increase, would harm profit margins and, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our results of operations will suffer. 9 Our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy is dependent on our continued innovation and the successful development and launch of new products and product extensions, and marketing of existing products. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to maintain the strong brand image of our existing products, extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. In addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We also seek to maintain and extend our brand image through marketing investments, including media, advertising, promotions and trade spend. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. There are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the industry as a whole. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. Fluctuations in commodity prices could cause volatility in our operating costs and may reduce profits. We use many different types of commodities and inputs, including beef, pork, coffee, wheat, corn, corn syrup, soybean and corn oils, butter, sugar and energy. The prices of commodities we use are subject to volatility due to factors beyond our control, such as commodity market fluctuations, speculative trading, the availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs. We experienced unprecedented increases in the prices of our commodities and other inputs in fiscal 2011, especially in the price of green coffee. In fiscal 2011, the price of green coffee increased as much as 50% over the prior year and the commodities markets also saw increases of over 30% in ingredients (flour, sweeteners, oils, etc.) and 20% in our meat portfolio. Our commodity costs in fiscal 2011 (excluding mark-to-market derivative gains and losses but including the $55 million of currency mark-to-market adjustments) increased approximately $646 million over the prior year, and we expect to see commodity price volatility continue to be a challenge in fiscal 2012. Commodity price increases directly impact our business by increasing the costs of raw materials used to make our products and the costs to manufacture, package and ship our products. Decreases in commodity prices indirectly impact our business by creating pressure to decrease our prices. We use commodity financial derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts to hedge some of our commodity price exposure, consistent with our overall risk management program; however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome sustained increases in market prices due to alternate uses for feed grains or other systemic changes in the industry. Over time, if commodity costs increase, our operating costs will increase despite our commodity hedging program. Additionally, if we are not able to increase our product prices to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs, as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or competitive pricing postures of our competitors, or if unit volume sales are significantly reduced due to price increases, it could have a material negative impact on our gross margin and profitability. Conversely, if we are not able to maintain the prices of our products as commodity costs decrease, or if unit volume sales are significantly reduced due to our failure to decrease prices, it could have a material negative impact on our profitability. 10 We must leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products and maintain profitability during economic downturns. In many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label or generic products that generally are sold at lower prices. Consumers’ willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to maintain consumer perception that our products are of a higher quality and provide greater value than less expensive alternatives. If the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. Furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands, or to forego certain purchases altogether. We experienced this type of shift to lower-priced brands and consumers delaying or forgoing purchases during the turbulent economy in fiscal 2009 and, to a lesser extent, in fiscal 2010 and 2011. To the extent this trend continues, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products, or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. If our food products become contaminated or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Selling products for human consumption involves a number of legal risks. We may need to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. We also may incur significant liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we could be the target of claims that our advertising is false or deceptive under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers and contract manufacturers due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics or labor strikes at our facilities, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. If we are unable to successfully complete the sale of the North American Fresh Bakery business, our ability to complete the Spin-Off and declare the special dividend would be impeded and our financial results adversely affected. During fiscal 2011, Sara Lee signed an agreement to sell its North American Fresh Bakery business, which transaction is expected to close in early fiscal 2012; however completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory clearances. Any inability to complete the transaction, due to regulatory restrictions or otherwise, could divert management’s attention from our existing core businesses, impede our ability to complete the Spin-Off and declare and pay the one-time special cash dividend and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, we expect to recognize charges to eliminate stranded costs incurred in connection with the North American Fresh Bakery and International Household and Body Care divestitures. If we are not able to eliminate all or most of these stranded costs post-divestiture, it could have a continuing negative impact on our results of operations. 11 The proposed Spin-Off and the resulting separation of Sara Lee into two independent public companies is subject to risks which could delay or impede its completion or result in our inability to fully achieve the expected benefits. The proposed Spin-Off of our international coffee and tea business and resulting separation of Sara Lee into two independent, public companies is a complex transaction that is subject to final approval by Sara Lee’s Board of Directors and various tax rulings and regulatory approvals. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the tax rulings and other approvals within the anticipated time frame or at all. In addition, the nature and timing of the Spin-Off may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market or regulatory conditions. As a result, the proposed Spin-Off could be delayed or may not occur. We believe that the Spin-Off, plus the one-time special cash dividend, will enhance long-term stockholder value. However, Sara Lee cannot predict with certainty if, or the extent to which, these benefits will be achieved or when any such benefits would be recognized. In addition, there are various financial and operational risks and uncertainties inherent in the proposed Spin-Off that could have a negative impact on our financial results, including diversion of management’s attention from operating and growing our businesses, disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to complete the Spin-Off and operate and grow our businesses, the inability to eliminate stranded costs incurred as a result of the Spin-Off, weakening of our internal standards, controls and procedures, and impairment of our relationship with key customers and suppliers. If the proposed Spin-Off is successfully completed, Sara Lee will face new and unique risks, including the possibility of reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources, which may adversely impact future results. If we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. We continue to consider acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures as an important means of enhancing stockholder value and furthering our strategic objectives. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; inability to achieve expected returns that justify the investments made; difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures, retaining the acquired businesses’ customers and brands, and achieving the expected financial results and benefits of the transaction, such as cost savings and revenue growth from geographic expansion or product extensions; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; and diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses. We are actively pursuing the divestiture of certain businesses to better position the international coffee and tea and North American meat businesses following the Spin-Off. These and any other divestitures we undertake could involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including difficulty identifying acquirors or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us; a potential requirement to recognize impairment charges; inability to eliminate stranded costs incurred as a result of the divestiture; diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; and inability to achieve the full expected benefits of our proposed divestitures. The proposed Spin-Off could result in substantial tax liabilities. The proposed Spin-Off is intended to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and we are seeking a ruling to this effect; however, no assurances can be made as to our ability to obtain such a ruling within the anticipated time frame or at all. If we are unable to obtain a ruling, we may decide not to pursue the proposed Spin-Off. If obtained, the ruling will be based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by us. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the ruling at the time of and subsequent to the proposed Spin-Off. Any ruling obtained with respect to the proposed Spin-Off will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive 12 effect. In addition, the ruling will not establish that the proposed Spin-Off satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and the parties will rely solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied. The opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. Thus, even if a ruling is obtained and the opinion of counsel is provided, the IRS could assert that we have not otherwise satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for us and for our stockholders. Our financial results are subject to currency fluctuations as a result of our significant international operations. In fiscal 2011, approximately 50% of our net sales and operating segment income related to continuing operations were generated outside the United States. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in U.S. dollars, while our international businesses report transactions in their respective local currencies. We translate results of transactions denominated in local currencies into U.S. dollars using market conversion rates applicable to the period in which the transaction is reported. As a result, changes in exchange rates during a period can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and our asset and liability balances, even if the underlying value of the item in its original currency has not changed. Sara Lee is particularly affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and, to a lesser extent, relative to the Brazilian real, Australian dollar and British pound. A three cent movement in the Euro exchange rate is expected to have an approximate one cent impact on our diluted earnings per share. Our pension costs could substantially increase as a result of volatility in the equity markets or interest rates, and could be adversely impacted by other pension arrangements. Volatility in the equity markets or interest rate could adversely impact the funded status of our pension plans. We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States, the Netherlands and various other foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. The difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of our plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. As of the latest measurement date in July 2011, the projected benefit obligation of Sara Lee’s defined benefit pension plans related to continuing operations was $4.5 billion and total assets in such plans were $4.5 billion, which compares to a funding deficit of approximately $450 million in fiscal 2010. Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of our plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which Sara Lee operates, the tax deductibility of amounts funded and arrangements made with the trustees of certain foreign plans. A significant increase in our pension funding requirements could require us to repatriate a greater amount of overseas earnings, which would increase our cash tax expense, and have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business. Sara Lee also is a participating employer in various multi-employer pension plans that provide benefits to employees of multiple employers (“MEPP”). MEPPs are managed by trustee boards comprised of participating employer and labor union representatives, and the employers participating in a MEPP are jointly responsible for maintaining the plan’s funding requirements. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe that the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in many of these MEPPs substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits. As a result of our participation in MEPPs, we could experience greater volatility in our overall pension funding obligations because our obligations may be impacted by the funded 13 status of the plan, the plan’s investment performance, changes in participant demographics, financial stability of contributing employers and changes in actuarial assumptions. If we don’t achieve targeted cost reductions and realize anticipated efficiencies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success and profitability depends in part on our ability to be efficient in the manufacture and distribution of our products and in processing transactions with our customers and vendors. We have invested significant resources and made significant capital expenditures to improve our operational efficiency. For example, in fiscal 2009 we launched a comprehensive initiative called “Project Accelerate,” which is designed to cut costs, improve margins and increase efficiency. Our failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement from our previous investments and cost reduction initiative could adversely affect our profitability, impact our ability to invest in growth initiatives and weaken our competitive position. New or more stringent governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. For example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. Also, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry recently have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight, and future outbreaks of diseases among cattle, poultry or pigs could lead to further governmental regulation. Operating in a highly regulated environment also may make us subject to legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. Additionally, our selling practices are regulated by competition authorities in the United States and abroad. A finding that we are in violation of, or out of compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, any of which could adversely affect our business. Changes in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our financing costs in future periods. We have one credit facility in place and Sara Lee’s credit rating is a significant factor that determines the pricing under this credit facility. Negative changes in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs. In addition, our current short-term credit rating allows us to participate in a commercial paper market that has a large number of potential investors and a high degree of liquidity. We access the commercial paper market for daily funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both. The global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. As a global business, Sara Lee’s tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and 14 recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the U.S. and that will be taxable. As a result of the geographic mix of our business, we need to remit a significant portion of the earnings of our foreign operations to the U.S. each year. This has resulted in higher levels of tax expense and cash taxes paid. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are fully supported, we believe that certain positions will be challenged and may not be fully sustained. The tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. When particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries as well as our operations and assets in such countries. In fiscal 2011, approximately 50% of our net sales and operating segment income related to continuing operations were generated outside the United States. In addition, approximately 40% of our total assets are located outside of the United States and we use non-U.S. third-party suppliers for inventory and distribution services. As a result, Sara Lee is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: • compliance with U.S. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • compliance with, and ability to enforce remedies under, a variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; • different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments, including without limitation potentially negative consequences from changes in anti-competition and tax laws; • fluctuations in currency values and/or unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange controls; • earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; • imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; and • political and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest and the nationalization of properties by foreign governments. The occurrence of any of these events in the markets where Sara Lee operates or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit Sara Lee’s ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Changes in our relationships with our major customers, or in the trade terms required by such customers, may reduce sales and profits. Because of the competitive environment facing retailers, many of our customers have increasingly sought to improve their profitability through pricing concessions and increased promotional programs, more favorable trade terms and increased emphasis on private label products. This trend has become more pronounced with 15 increasing retailer consolidation and the rise in hard discounters in Europe. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to customers, our margins would be reduced. Further, if we are unable to continue to offer terms that are acceptable to our significant customers, such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., our largest customer, or our customers determine that they need less inventory to service consumers, these customers could reduce purchases of our products or may increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 