Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou are encouraged to read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, however there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future.Risk Factors Related to the Merger AgreementThe conditions under the Merger Agreement to Tyson’s consummation of the tender offer and our subsequent merger with a subsidiary of Tyson may not be satisfied at all or in the anticipated timeframe.Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the consummation of Tyson’s pending tender offer and subsequent merger is subject to customary conditions. Satisfaction of certain of the conditions is not within our control, and difficulties in otherwise satisfying the conditions may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the consummation of the tender offer and subsequent merger. These conditions include, among other things, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act and (ii) there being validly tendered and not validly withdrawn a number of shares of Hillshire Brands common stock equal to at least two-thirds of the total outstanding shares of Hillshire Brands common stock upon expiration of the tender offer. It also is possible that an event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence resulting in a material adverse effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement) on Hillshire Brands may occur, the non-occurrence of which is a condition to the consummation of the tender offer and subsequent merger. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required conditions will be satisfied. If the acquisition does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approvals and clearances, or if another event occurs delaying or preventing the acquisition, such delay or failure to complete the acquisition may create uncertainty or otherwise have negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the price per share for our common stock. While Tyson’s tender offer and merger are pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could disrupt our business.Whether or not Tyson’s pending tender offer and subsequent merger are consummated, the proposed acquisition may disrupt our current plans and operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The pendency of the acquisition may also divert management’s attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations and our employees and other key personnel may have uncertainties about the effect of the pending acquisition, and the uncertainties may impact our ability to retain, recruit and hire key personnel while the acquisition is pending or if it fails to close. We may incur unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the acquisition. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our suppliers, customers and other business partners will view or react to the acquisition upon consummation. If we are unable to reassure our customers, suppliers and other business partners to continue transacting business with us, our sales, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 9The preparations for integration between Tyson and Hillshire Brands have placed and we expect will continue to place a significant burden on many of our employees and on our internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key personnel depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with the combined company, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, whether or not the merger is consummated, while it is pending we will continue to incur costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed merger, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the Merger Agreement generally requires Hillshire Brands to operate its business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice pending consummation of the merger and also restricts us from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs without Tyson’s consent, including, without limitation, the payment of dividends other than regular quarterly cash dividends in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice not exceeding $0.175 per share. Such restrictions will be in place until either the merger is consummated or the Merger Agreement is terminated. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the tender offer and merger could adversely affect our business and results of operations.In the event that our proposed merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of Tyson is not consummated, the trading price of our common stock and our future business and results of operations may be negatively affected.The conditions to the consummation of the proposed acquisition may not be satisfied as noted above. If the acquisition is not consummated, we would remain liable for significant transaction costs, and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of the proposed acquisition. For these and other reasons, not consummating the acquisition could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we do not consummate the acquisition, the price of our common stock may decline significantly from the current market price, which we believe reflects a market assumption that the tender offer and the merger will be consummated. Certain costs associated with the acquisition have already been incurred or may be payable even if the acquisition is not consummated. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the tender offer and merger and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees or recruiting and retention efforts, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed acquisition.If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee to Tyson. These costs could require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for other uses.If the proposed acquisition is not completed, in certain circumstances, we could be required to pay a termination fee of $261 million to Tyson and to reimburse Tyson $163 million, the amount of the termination fee paid by Tyson to Pinnacle on our behalf under the Pinnacle Merger Agreement. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the termination fee we may be required to pay, if any, under the Merger Agreement may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes or other uses. For these and other reasons, termination of the Merger Agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which in turn would materially and adversely affect our business or financial condition as well as the price per share of our common stock.Litigation against us and our directors could result in an injunction preventing consummation of the Tyson tender offer and subsequent merger, and significant litigation costs that could adversely affect our financial condition.One of the conditions to the consummation of the Tyson tender offer and the subsequent merger is that no law or order is in effect that prohibits, enjoins or makes illegal the consummation of the tender offer and merger. Consequently, if any person or entity were to secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting our ability to consummate the tender offer, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the merger from being consummated at all or within the expected time frame. If consummation of the tender offer or merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us, as noted above.Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally.Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the merger that are different from, or are in addition to, those of Hillshire Brands stockholders generally. These interests may include direct or indirect ownership of Hillshire Brands common stock, stock options and restricted stock units (including performance-based restricted stock units) and the potential receipt of change in control payments by certain Hillshire Brands executive officers in connection with the proposed merger.10Risks Relating to the Industry and our BusinessOur profitability may suffer as a result of the highly competitive markets in which we operate.The retail branded food and foodservice industries are intensely competitive, with an emphasis on product quality, innovation and value, and our products are subject to significant price competition. We compete with companies that have various product ranges and geographic reach and some of our competitors have significant financial resources. From time to time in response to competitive and customer pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. Such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. Any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, would harm our profit margins. If we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share would be adversely affected.Fluctuations in commodity costs could cause volatility in our operating costs and may reduce profits.We use large quantities of commodities and inputs such as pork, beef, poultry, packaging and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn, corn syrup, soybean and corn oils, butter and sugar. We also raise turkeys and contract with turkey growers to meet our raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. Our costs for turkey are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, including corn and soybean meal. Prices for all of these commodities are volatile and fluctuate due to factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the commodity market, outbreaks of disease, the availability of supply, severe weather, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental and international trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. We experienced material input cost inflation throughout 2014 and expect continued inflationary input costs in 2015.Volatility in our commodity and other input costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. The company’s objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time and to offset any operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. In addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower sales volumes. Conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. Further, continuous improvement savings may not be sufficient to fully offset any operating cost increases. While we use commodity financial derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts to manage our exposure to short-term cost fluctuations, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. Our strategies may not be adequate to limit our exposure to sustained cost increases and also may delay our ability to benefit from cost decreases, if commodity costs decrease below those secured under our hedging programs. Over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations.Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands and products.We have a number of iconic brands with significant value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers.There also are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the industry as a whole. Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. We strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.Our financial success is dependent on our continued innovation, successful launch of new products and maintaining our brand image through marketing investments.Our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. We devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our 11new products may not be commercially successful. To the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. In addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations.We also seek to maintain and extend our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices.Our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. The growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the Company's revenues and operating margins.As a producer of branded meat products, we are subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork, beef livestock and poultry flocks, including porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), avian influenza and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). The outbreak of disease could adversely affect our supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production and reduce operating margins. Additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder our ability to market and sell products. We have developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios; however there can be no assurance that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on our operating results.We must leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products and maintain profitability during economic downturns.In many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. Consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. If the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. In addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. We experienced this type of shift to lower-priced products during periods when we increased product prices in response to higher commodity costs. To the extent this occurs again, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. In addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales.Changes in our relationships with our major customers, or in the trade terms required by such customers, may reduce sales and profits.Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2014 and our top 10 customers, including Wal-Mart, collectively accounted for approximately 59% of our fiscal 2014 net sales from continuing operations. Besides Wal-Mart, no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales from continuing operations during fiscal 2014. Our Retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts and if they do sign contracts they generally are limited in scope and duration. There can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large Retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved inventory efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs and increased emphasis on private label products, including premium label offerings. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to our customers, our margins would be reduced. In addition, we sell to many large foodservice distributors and group purchasing organizations, which sales are frequently secured through 12competitive bidding. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.If our food products become contaminated or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.Selling products for human consumption involves a number of legal risks. We may need to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. Such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. We also may incur significant liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we could be the target of claims that our advertising is false or deceptive under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image.Concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients.We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.Indemnification agreements with D.E MASTER BLENDERS 1753 N.V. (“DEMB”) and buyers of other divested businesses may not fully protect us against certain liabilities.On June 28, 2012, we divested our international coffee and tea business segment through the Spin-Off of DEMB. In addition to the Spin-Off, Hillshire Brands has completed the divestitures of a number of other businesses, both within North America and internationally. Before they were divested, these businesses were subject to Hillshire Brands' internal controls and accounting and reporting policies and procedures; however, there may be undiscovered issues that existed within DEMB or the other businesses that we divested that could adversely impact our historical financial statements. For example, on August 1, 2012, DEMB announced that it had discovered accounting irregularities and other adjustments within its Brazilian operations, which were not known before the Spin-Off and have resulted in Hillshire Brands restating its financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2011. In connection with the Spin-Off, we and DEMB generally agreed to indemnify each other for liabilities that arise out of our respective businesses and for certain specified legacy liabilities arising from businesses divested prior to the Spin-Off. In addition, DEMB agreed to indemnify us for certain tax liabilities that could result from the Spin-Off and certain related transactions (as more fully described below). There can be no assurance that (1) our indemnity agreements with DEMB will be sufficient to protect us against liabilities that may arise relating to the conduct of the spun-off international coffee and tea business, including certain tax liabilities, (2) we will not be required to indemnify DEMB for liabilities arising out of the conduct of our business or certain legacy liabilities, or (3) DEMB will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations to us. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering payment from DEMB for indemnifiable liabilities that may arise, we may be temporarily required to bear financial responsibility for such liabilities until such time as the indemnity is paid. Our inability to enforce these indemnification obligations or obtain indemnification payments in a timely manner, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We have also entered into agreements with the buyers of other divested businesses not related to the Spin-Off that contain mutual indemnification obligations for matters relating to those businesses. These indemnification agreements and obligations are subject to the same risks as the Spin-Off related indemnification obligations noted above.We and our stockholders could incur substantial tax liabilities as a result of the Spin-Off.We intend for the Spin-Off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free under Sections 355, 368(a)(1)(D), and 361 and related provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, which we refer to as the Code, and we received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the Spin-Off and certain related transactions, including the debt exchange, will qualify as tax-free to us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, or any material forward-looking covenants or undertakings are not complied with, then we would not be able to rely on the ruling. In addition, the ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive effect. As a matter of practice the IRS does not rule on every requirement for a tax-free spin-off or tax-free debt-for-debt exchange, and the parties relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements should be satisfied. The opinion of counsel relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and 13representations as to factual matters made by us and DEMB which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. Accordingly, even though we obtained a ruling and a “should” opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that we have not satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for us and for our stockholders.Events subsequent to the Spin-Off could cause the Spin-Off to become taxable. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with DEMB in connection with the Spin-Off, DEMB will generally be required to indemnify us for 100% of any taxes imposed on DEMB and its subsidiaries or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the Spin-Off and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of an acquisition of DEMB (including the acquisition of DEMB by J.A. Benckiser), or actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by DEMB or any of its affiliates. However, if the Spin-Off or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or omissions by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes. In addition, we would be responsible for 50% of any taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due to actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by us, DEMB or any of our or DEMB's respective subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that the tax sharing agreement will be sufficient to protect us against any tax liabilities that may arise, or that DEMB will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Our inability to enforce the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing agreement or obtain indemnification payments in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.If we don't achieve targeted cost reductions and realize anticipated efficiencies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Our future success and profitability depends in part on our ability to be efficient in managing revenue, the manufacture and distribution of our products and in processing transactions with our customers and vendors. We have invested significant resources and made significant capital expenditures to improve our operational efficiency. In addition, we have a number of initiatives that are expected to deliver significant savings by 2016. Our failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement from our previous investments and our current cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives could adversely affect our profitability, impact our ability to invest in growth initiatives and weaken our competitive position.Multiemployer Pension Plan could adversely affect our business.We participate in a “multiemployer” pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of our employees. We make periodic contributions to this plan to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. Our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. In the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. The multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. In the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material.Disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, due to disputes, weather, natural disaster, fire, explosion, terrorism, raw material shortage, pandemics, labor strikes or climate change could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. For example, during March 2014, a fire occurred at our turkey processing facility in Iowa. The fire caused significant damage to both the plant and equipment and resulted in a shutdown in production. We currently estimate the facility will resume production within 9-12 months from the date of the fire. We are presently maintaining pre-fire production volumes through the use of alternate processors while the facility is under repair and anticipate that we will continue to do so until production resumes. Any potential delays in resuming production or our inability to maintain sufficient pre-fire production volumes through the use of alternate processors could have an adverse impact on our business. 14Changes in the business operations or financial performance of our suppliers or contract manufacturers also could disrupt our supply chain or distribution capabilities. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.New or more stringent governmental regulations could adversely affect our business.Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. For example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. Also, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry recently have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight and future outbreaks of diseases among cattle, poultry or pigs could lead to further governmental regulation.Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures.Legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that affect our product sales, reputation and profitability.We operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. Consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. Moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.Weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid capital markets and volatile economic conditions could limit our access to the capital markets, reduce our liquidity, or increase our borrowing costs.From time to time we may need to access the short-term and long-term capital markets to obtain financing. Our financial performance, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, will affect our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. In addition, we have credit facilities in place and Hillshire Brands' credit rating is a significant factor that determines the pricing under these credit facilities. Negative changes in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs. Further, our current short-term credit rating allows us to participate in a commercial paper market that has a large number of potential investors and a high degree of liquidity. We may access the commercial paper market for daily funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both. Our business also could be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.Volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans.We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States. The difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of our plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. As of the end of fiscal 2014, the funded status of Hillshire Brands' defined benefit pension plans related to continuing operations was an underfunded position of $120 million, as compared to an underfunded position of $123 million at the end of fiscal 2013. Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of our plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. 15Failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.Information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. We also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. In addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. We have implemented technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. Any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners and have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation.In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. In addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image.Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness.We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.If we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.From time to time, we may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures that would enhance stockholder value and further our strategic objectives. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; difficulties in achieving expected returns that justify the investments made; difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of the transaction, such as cost savings and revenue growth from geographic expansion or product extensions; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; adverse effects on existing customer and supplier business relationships; indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers; and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.