Item 1A. Risk Factors You are encouraged to read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, however there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. Our profitability may suffer as a result of the highly competitive markets in which we operate. The retail branded food and foodservice industries are intensely competitive and our products are subject to significant price competition. We compete with companies that have various product ranges and geographic reach, and some of our competitors have significant financial resources. From time to time in response to competitive and customer pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. Such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. Any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increase, would harm our profit margins. If we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. 8 Table of Contents Fluctuations in commodity costs could cause volatility in our operating costs and may reduce profits. We use large quantities of commodities and inputs such as pork, beef, poultry, packaging and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, wheat and sugar. We also raise turkeys and contract with turkey growers to meet our raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. Our costs for turkey are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, including corn and soybean meal. Prices for all of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate due to factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the commodity market, the availability of supply, severe weather, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. Although our outlook for fiscal 2013 assumes modest commodity deflation, we expect that the recent severe weather and draught conditions in the U.S. will lead to commodity cost inflation in the back half of fiscal 2013 and into fiscal 2014. Volatility in our commodity and other input costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. We may not able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. In addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower sales volumes. Conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. We use commodity financial derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts to manage our exposure to short-term cost fluctuations; however, our strategies may not be adequate to limit our exposure to sustained cost increases and also may delay our ability to benefit from cost decreases, if commodity costs decrease below than those secured under our hedging programs. Over time, if commodity costs increase, our operating costs will increase despite our commodity hedging program, which could materially and adversely affect our short-term financial results. Our financial success is dependent on our continued innovation and successful launch of new products, and maintaining our brand image through marketing investments. To achieve our growth strategy we must, among other things, maintain the strong brand image of our existing products, introduce innovative new products and extend the product offerings of our existing brands. Our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. We devote significant resources to new product development, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. To the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. In addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We also seek to maintain and extend our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. There also are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the industry as a whole. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. Our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain 9 Table of Contents or extend our brand image. Negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We must leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products and maintain profitability during economic downturns. In many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. Consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. If the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. In addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. We experienced this type of shift to lower-priced products during periods when we increased product prices in response to higher commodity costs. To the extent this occurs again, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. If our food products become contaminated or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Selling products for human consumption involves a number of legal risks. We may need to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. We also may incur significant liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we could be the target of claims that our advertising is false or deceptive under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or without merit, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the Company’s revenues and operating margins. As a producer of meat-centric food products, we are subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork, beef livestock, and poultry flocks, including Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD), Avian Influenza and Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE). The outbreak of disease could adversely affect our supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production, and reduce operating margins. Additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder our ability to market and sell products. We have developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios; however no assurance given that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on our operating results. Indemnification agreements with D.E MASTER BLENDERS 1753 N.V. (“DEMB”) and buyers of other divested businesses may not fully protect us against certain liabilities. On June 28, 2012 we divested our international coffee and tea business segment through the Spin-Off of DEMB. In addition to the Spin-Off, Hillshire Brands has completed the divestitures of a number of other businesses, both within North American and internationally. Before they were divested, these businesses were subject to Hillshire Brands’ internal controls and accounting and reporting policies and procedures; however, there may be undiscovered issues that existed within the businesses that we divested that could adversely impact our historical financial statements. For example, on August 1, 2012 DEMB announced that they had discovered 10 Table of Contents accounting irregularities and other adjustments within its Brazilian operations, which were not known before the Spin-Off and have resulted in Hillshire Brands restating its financial statements for fiscal years 2010 and 2011. In connection with the Spin-Off, DEMB agreed to indemnify us for liabilities and obligations relating to the conduct of the spun-off international coffee and tea business. We have also entered into agreements with the buyers of other businesses that contain mutual indemnification obligations for matters relating to those businesses. There can be no assurance that (1) these indemnity agreements will be sufficient to protect us against liabilities that may arise, (2) we will not be required to indemnify the buyers for activities relating to those businesses that occurred prior to divestiture, or (3) the indemnifying parties will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We and our stockholders could incur substantial tax liabilities as a result of the Spin-Off. We intend for the Spin-Off to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and we received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the Spin-Off and certain related transactions, including the debt exchange, will qualify as tax-free to us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, or any material forward-looking covenants or undertakings are not complied with, then we would not be able to rely on the ruling. In addition, the ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive effect. In addition, as a matter of practice the IRS does not rule on every requirement for a tax-free spin-off, and the parties relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements should be satisfied. The opinion of counsel relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us and DEMB which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. Accordingly, even though we obtained a ruling and a “should” opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that we have not otherwise satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for us and for our stockholders. New leadership and the loss of key executives with significant historical knowledge in connection with the Spin-Off could create inefficiencies and inconsistencies that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the Spin-Off, almost all of our former executive officers and half of our Board of Directors exited the company. In addition, as part of the cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives we implemented in connection with the Spin-Off, we terminated over 100 mid-level and senior management employees at or shortly after completion of the Spin-Off and have experienced higher than normal employee turnover. The departing employees include key personnel with significant historical knowledge of our businesses and financial and corporate processes. The transition of leadership of the company to a new senior management team, and the departure of key personnel with significant historical knowledge of our businesses and financial and corporate processes, could create inefficiencies and inconsistencies in our business operations and corporate processes that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not fully achieve the expected benefits of the Spin-Off. In approving the Spin-Off, Sara Lee’s board of directors believed that the Spin-Off and the one-time special cash dividend would enhance the long-term interests of the company and its stockholders. The expected benefits 11 Table of Contents of the Spin-Off included, among other things: improved management focus on each company’s respective business; the creation of two pure-play companies, which are easier for investors and analysts to understand; and greater control over future capital structure and return on investment, including more opportunities for strategic partnerships or acquisitions. There is no assurance that these expected benefits will be realized. In addition, there are financial and operational risks inherent in the Spin-Off that could have a negative impact on our financial results, including diversion of management’s attention from operating and growing our businesses, the transition of operational responsibility to a new senior leadership team at the completion of the Spin-Off and the inability to eliminate stranded costs incurred as a result of the Spin-Off. Failure to achieve the expected benefits of the Spin-Off could adversely impact our future results. If we don’t achieve targeted cost reductions and realize anticipated efficiencies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success and profitability depends in part on our ability to be efficient in the manufacture and distribution of our products and in processing transactions with our customers and vendors. We have invested significant resources and made significant capital expenditures to improve our operational efficiency. In addition, in June 2012 we announced that we have implemented a new three-year cost reduction and productivity improvement program designed to save $100 million by fiscal 2015, of which $40 million is expected to be realized in fiscal 2013. Our failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement from our previous investments and our current cost reduction and productivity improvement program could adversely affect our profitability, impact our ability to invest in growth initiatives and weaken our competitive position. Disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers and contract manufacturers due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics or labor strikes at our facilities, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. If we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. We continue to consider acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures as an important means of enhancing stockholder value and furthering our strategic objectives. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; difficulties in achieving expected returns that justify the investments made; difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures, retaining the acquired businesses’ customers and brands, and achieving the expected financial results and benefits of the transaction, such as cost savings and revenue growth from geographic expansion or product extensions; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; and diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses. New or more stringent governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. For example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change 12 Table of Contents or restrict our advertising practices. Also, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry recently have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight, and future outbreaks of diseases among cattle, poultry or pigs could lead to further governmental regulation. Operating in a highly regulated environment also may make us subject to legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. Changes in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our financing costs in future periods. We have one credit facility in place and Hillshire Brands’ credit rating is a significant factor that determines the pricing under this credit facility. Negative changes in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs. In addition, our current short-term credit rating allows us to participate in a commercial paper market that has a large number of potential investors and a high degree of liquidity. We may access the commercial paper market for daily funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both. Changes in our relationships with our major customers, or in the trade terms required by such customers, may reduce sales and profits. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 and our top 10 customers, including Wal-Mart, collectively accounted for approximately 56% of our fiscal 2012 net sales from continuing operations. Besides Wal-Mart, no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales from continuing operations during fiscal 2012. Our Retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts they generally are limited in scope and duration. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become larger, our large Retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved inventory efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs and increased emphasis on private label products. To the extent we provide concessions or trade terms that are favorable to our customers, our margins would be reduced. In addition, we sell to many large foodservice distributors and group purchasing organizations, which sales are frequently secured through competitive bidding. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in the capital markets or interest rate could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States. The difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of our plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. As of the end of fiscal 2012, the funded status of Hillshire Brands’ defined benefit pension plans related to continuing operations was an underfunded position of $165 million, as compared to an underfunded position of $118 million at the end of fiscal 2011. Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of our plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. 13 Table of Contents Failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. Information technology is an important part of our business operations, and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers and other security issues. We have implemented technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. Any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners, and have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 