Risk Factors.” Regulation Ground Transportation The motor-carrier industry is subject to federal regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency (“PHMSA”), and the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), which are units of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FMCSA publishes and enforces comprehensive trucking safety regulations and performs certain functions relating to motor-carrier registration, cargo and liability insurance, extension of credit to motor-carrier customers, and leasing of equipment by motor carriers from owner-operators. The PHMSA publishes and enforces regulations regarding the transportation of hazardous materials. The STB has authority to resolve certain types of pricing disputes and authorize certain types of intercarrier agreements. In December 2010, the FMCSA launched the Compliance Safety Accountability (“CSA”) program in an effort to improve commercial truck and bus safety. A component of the CSA is the Safety Measurement System, which 3 Table of Contents analyzes all safety-based violations to determine a commercial motor carrier’s safety performance. This safety program allows the FMCSA to identify carriers with safety-performance issues and intervene to address a carrier’s specific safety problems. Federal law allows all states to impose insurance requirements on motor carriers conducting business within their borders, and empowers most states to require motor carriers conducting interstate operations through their territory to make annual filings verifying that they hold appropriate registrations from FMCSA. Motor carriers also must pay state fuel taxes and vehicle registration fees, which normally are apportioned on the basis of mileage operated in each state. Hours of service (“HOS”) regulations establish the maximum number of hours that a commercial truck driver may work. The FMCSA issued a new HOS rule in December of 2011. The new rule reduces the number of hours a commercial truck driver may work during his or her work day. The full effects of this rule on various trucking operations are still being analyzed, but because the major provisions of the new rule do not become effective until July 2013, there should be little effect during 2012. Additionally, in January 2011, the FMCSA issued a proposed rule requiring all motor carriers to use electronic onboard recorders (“EOBRs”) to monitor their drivers’ compliance with HOS requirements. This rule was overturned by a court challenge, but it is expected that the agency will issue a new EOBR rule in 2012. Con-way Truckload’s entire fleet already utilizes EOBRs to capture HOS data, and Con-way Freight plans to implement the devices across its fleet. Environmental Con-way’s operations involve the storage, handling and use of diesel fuel and other hazardous substances. Con-way is subject to laws and regulations that (1) govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects such as discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous waste, and (2) impose liability for the costs of cleaning up, and certain damages resulting from, sites of past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous materials. Environmental liabilities relating to Con-way’s properties may be imposed regardless of whether Con-way leases or owns the properties in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by Con-way or by a prior owner or tenant, and also may be imposed with respect to properties that Con-way may have owned or leased in the past. Con-way has accrued for its estimate of remediation costs at these sites. Homeland Security Con-way is subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the Department of Homeland Security, including regulation by the Transportation Security Administration and the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. Other Information Information Available on Website Con-way makes available, free of charge, on its website at “www.con-way.com,” under the headings “Investors/Annual Reports & SEC Filings,” copies of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, in each case as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Con-way makes available, free of charge, on its website at “www.con-way.com,” under the headings “Investors/Corporate Governance,” current copies of the following documents: (1) the charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Nominating Committees of its Board of Directors; (2) its Corporate Governance Guidelines; (3) its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers; (4) its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors; and (5) its Code of Ethics for Employees. Copies of these documents are also available in print to shareholders upon request, addressed to the Corporate Secretary at 2211 Old Earhart Road, Suite 100, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105. 4 Table of Contents None of the information on Con-way’s website shall be deemed to be a part of this report. Regulatory Certifications In 2011, Con-way filed the written affirmations and Chief Executive Officer certifications required by Section 303A.12 of the NYSE Listing Manual and Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Con-way’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks before making any investment or other decisions. Economic Cyclicality Con-way’s operating results are affected, in large part, by cyclical conditions in its customers’ markets and in the U.S. and global economies. While economic conditions affect most companies, the transportation industry is cyclical and susceptible to trends in economic activity. When individuals and companies purchase and produce fewer goods, Con-way’s businesses transport fewer goods. In addition, Con-way Freight and Con-way Truckload are capital-intensive and Con-way Freight has a relatively high fixed-cost structure that is difficult to adjust to match shifting volume levels. Accordingly, any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would have an adverse effect on Con-way. Government Regulation Con-way is subject to compliance with many laws and regulations that apply to its business activities. These include regulations related to driver hours-of-service limitations, labor-organizing activities, stricter cargo-security requirements, tax laws, employment practices and environmental matters, including potential limits on carbon emissions under climate-change legislation. Con-way is not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or Con-way in particular. Although government regulation that affects Con-way and its competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed to customers with no adverse consequences, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. As a result, Con-way believes that any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations could result in additional costs and could have an adverse effect on Con-way. Concern over climate change has led to increased legislative and regulatory efforts to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. Even without such regulation, Con-way’s response to customer-led sustainability initiatives could lead to increased costs to implement additional efforts to reduce its emissions. Additionally, Con-way may experience reduced demand for its services if it does not comply with customers’ sustainability requirements. As a result, increased costs or loss of revenue resulting from sustainability initiatives could have an adverse effect on Con-way. Capital Markets Significant disruptions or volatility in the global capital markets may increase Con-way’s cost of borrowing or affect its ability to access credit and equity capital markets. Market conditions may affect Con-way’s ability to refinance indebtedness as and when it becomes due. In addition, changes in Con-way’s credit ratings could adversely affect its ability and cost to borrow funds. Con-way is unable to predict how conditions in the capital markets will affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Price and Availability of Fuel Con-way is subject to risks associated with the availability and price of fuel, which are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside of Con-way’s control. Con-way would be adversely affected by an inability to obtain fuel in the future. Although historically Con-way has been able to obtain fuel from various sources and in the desired quantities, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. 6 Table of Contents Con-way may also be adversely affected by the timing and degree of fluctuations in fuel prices. Currently, Con-way’s business units have fuel-surcharge revenue programs or cost-recovery mechanisms in place with a majority of customers. Con-way Freight and Con-way Truckload maintain fuel-surcharge programs designed to offset or mitigate the adverse effect of rising fuel prices. Menlo Worldwide Logistics has cost-recovery mechanisms incorporated into most of its customer contracts under which it recognizes fuel-surcharge revenue designed to eliminate the adverse effect of rising fuel prices on purchased transportation. Con-way’s competitors in the less-than-truckload (“LTL”) and truckload markets also impose fuel surcharges. Although fuel surcharges are generally based on a published national index, there is no industry-standard fuel-surcharge formula. As a result, fuel-surcharge revenue constitutes only part of the overall rate structure. Revenue excluding fuel surcharges (sometimes referred to as base freight rates) represents the collective pricing elements that exclude fuel surcharges. Ultimately, the total amount that Con-way Freight and Con-way Truckload can charge for their services is determined by competitive pricing pressures and market factors. Historically, Con-way Freight’s fuel-surcharge program has enabled it to more than recover increases in fuel costs and fuel-related increases in purchased transportation. As a result, Con-way Freight may be adversely affected if fuel prices fall and the resulting decrease in fuel-surcharge revenue is not offset by an equivalent increase in base freight-rate revenue. Although lower fuel surcharges may improve Con-way Freight’s ability to increase the freight rates that it would otherwise charge, there can be no assurance in this regard. Con-way Freight may also be adversely affected if fuel prices increase. Customers faced with fuel-related increases in transportation costs often seek to negotiate lower rates through reductions in the base freight rates and/or limitations on the fuel surcharges charged by Con-way Freight, which adversely affect Con-way Freight’s ability to offset higher fuel costs with higher revenue. Con-way Truckload’s fuel-surcharge program mitigates the effect of rising fuel prices but does not always result in Con-way Truckload fully recovering increases in its cost of fuel. The extent of recovery may vary depending on the amount of customer-negotiated adjustments and the degree to which Con-way Truckload is not compensated due to empty and out-of-route miles or from engine idling during cold or warm weather. Con-way would be adversely affected if, due to competitive and market factors, its business units are unable to continue their current fuel-surcharge programs and/or cost-recovery mechanisms. In addition, there can be no assurance that these programs, as currently maintained or as modified in the future, will be sufficiently effective to offset increases in the price of fuel. Employees The workforce of Con-way and its subsidiaries is not affiliated with labor unions. Con-way believes that the non-unionized operations of its business units have advantages over unionized competitors in providing reliable and cost-competitive customer services, including greater efficiency and flexibility. There can be no assurance that Con-way’s business units will be able to maintain their non-unionized status. Con-way hires drivers primarily for Con-way Freight and Con-way Truckload. At times, there is significant competition for qualified drivers in the transportation industry. As a result, these business units may be required to increase driver compensation and benefits, or face difficulty meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect Con-way. Business Interruption Con-way and its business units rely on shared-service facilities that provide shared administrative and technology services. Con-way is dependent on its automated systems and technology to operate its businesses and to increase employee productivity. Con-way has outsourced a significant portion of its information-technology infrastructure function and a small portion of its administrative and accounting functions. Although Con-way and the third-party 7 Table of Contents service providers collectively maintain backup systems and have disaster-recovery processes and procedures in place, a sustained interruption in the operation of these facilities, whether due to terrorist activities, earthquakes, floods, fires, cyber-attacks, transition to upgraded or replacement technology or any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on Con-way. Certain of the outsourced services are performed in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. A service provider’s failure to perform could have a material adverse effect on Con-way. Additionally, Con-way’s dependence on its automated systems and technology gives rise to cyber-security risks. Although Con-way and its third-party providers have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber-attacks, a security breach may cause a disruption of Con-way’s business or the loss of information and could have a material adverse effect on Con-way. Capital Intensity Two of Con-way’s primary businesses are capital-intensive. Con-way Freight and Con-way Truckload make significant investments in revenue equipment and Con-way Freight also makes significant investments in freight service centers. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including anticipated volume levels, and the price and availability of appropriate-use property for service centers and newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines, which are subject to restrictive Environmental Protection Agency engine-design requirements. If anticipated service-center and/or fleet requirements differ materially from actual usage, Con-way’s capital-intensive business units may have too much or too little capacity. Con-way attempts to mitigate the risk associated with too much or too little revenue equipment capacity by adjusting capital expenditures and by utilizing short-term equipment rentals and sub-contracted operators in order to match capacity with business volumes. Con-way’s investments in revenue equipment and freight service centers depend on its ability to generate cash flow from operations and its access to credit and equity capital markets. A decline in the availability of these funding sources could adversely affect Con-way. Asset Impairments Con-way’s assets include significant amounts of goodwill and other long-lived assets. Con-way’s regular reviews of the carrying value of its assets have resulted, from time to time, in significant impairment charges. It is possible that Con-way may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect Con-way’s results of operations. Defined Benefit Plans Con-way maintains defined benefit plans, including funded qualified pension plans, un-funded non-qualified pension plans, and an unfunded postretirement medical plan. A decline in interest rates and/or lower returns on funded plan assets may cause increases in the expense of, and funding requirements for, Con-way’s defined benefit pension plans. In 2009, Con-way amended its primary defined benefit pension plan to permanently curtail benefits. Despite this change, Con-way’s defined benefit pension plans remain subject to volatility associated with interest rates, returns on plan assets, and funding requirements. In addition to being subject to volatility associated with interest rates, Con-way’s expense and obligation under its postretirement medical plan are also subject to trends in health-care costs. As a result, Con-way is unable to predict the financial-statement effect associated with the defined benefit pension plans and the postretirement medical plan. Self-Insurance Accruals Con-way uses a combination of large-deductible purchased insurance and self-insurance programs to provide for the costs of employee medical, vehicular, cargo and workers’ compensation claims. Con-way’s estimated liability for self-retained insurance claims reflects certain actuarial assumptions and judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. Con-way periodically evaluates the level of insurance coverage and adjusts insurance levels based on risk tolerance and premium expense. An increase in the number or severity of self-insured claims or an increase in insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on Con-way. 8 Table of Contents Con-way has a captive insurance company that participates in a reinsurance pool to reinsure a portion of Con-way’s workers’ compensation claims. The operating results of the captive insurance company are affected by the number and severity of claims and the associated premiums paid or received. Con-way’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by the risk assumed and ceded by the captive insurance company. The cost of medical claims is also affected by health-care reform legislation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, was signed into law. This health-care reform legislation is expected to increase the costs associated with providing benefits under postretirement medical plans and employee medical plans. Changes made to the design of Con-way’s medical plans have the potential to mitigate some of the cost impact of the provisions included in the legislation. Ultimately, the cost of providing benefits under medical plans is dependent on a variety of factors, including governmental laws and regulations, health-care cost trends, claims experience, and health-care decisions by plan participants. As a result, Con-way is unable to predict how the cost of providing benefits under medical plans will affect its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Customer Concentration Menlo Worldwide Logistics is subject to risk related to customer concentration because of the relative importance of its largest customers and the increased ability of those customers to influence pricing and other contract terms. Many of its competitors in the logistics industry segment are subject to the same risk. Although Menlo Worldwide Logistics strives to broaden and diversify its customer base, a significant portion of its revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers, as more fully discussed in Item 1, “Business.” Consequently, a significant loss of business from, or adverse performance by, Menlo Worldwide Logistics’ major customers, may have a material adverse effect on Con-way’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, the renegotiation of major customer contracts may also have an adverse effect on Con-way. Other Factors In addition to the risks identified above, Con-way’s annual and quarterly operating results may be affected by a number of business, economic, regulatory and competitive factors, including: • increasing competition and pricing pressure; • the creditworthiness of Con-way’s customers and their ability to pay for services rendered; • the effect of litigation; • the effect that the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may have on the global economy and capital markets; • the possibility of defaults under Con-way’s $325 million credit agreement and other debt instruments; and • labor matters, including labor-organizing activities, work stoppages or strikes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 