ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, Con-way makes “forward-looking statements” in an effort to inform its shareholders and the public about its businesses. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events, anticipated results, or operational aspects. These statements are not predictions or guarantees of future performance, circumstances, or events as they are based on the facts and circumstances known to Con-way as of the date the statements are made. Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Forward-Looking Statements,” identifies the type of statements that are forward-looking. Various factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements. Described below are those factors that Con-way considers to be most significant to its businesses. Although Con-way believes it has identified and discussed below the primary risks affecting its businesses, there may be additional factors that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect Con-way’s future financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Business Interruption Con-way and its business units rely on a centralized shared-service facility for the performance of shared administrative and technology services in the conduct of their businesses. Con-way’s computer facilities and its administrative and technology employees are located at the shared-service facility. Con-way is dependent on its automated systems and technology to operate its businesses and to increase employee productivity. Although Con-way maintains backup systems and has disaster-recovery processes and procedures in place, a sustained interruption in the operation of these facilities, whether due to terrorist activities, earthquakes, floods, transition to upgraded or replacement technology, or any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on Con-way. Customer Concentration Menlo Logistics and many of its competitors in the logistics-industry segment are subject to risk related to customer concentration because of the relative importance of their largest customers and the increased ability of those customers to influence pricing and other contract terms. Although Menlo Logistics continues to broaden and diversify its customer base, a significant portion of its revenue and operating results are derived from a relatively small number of customers, as more fully discussed in Item 1, “Business.” Consequently, a significant loss of business from, or adverse performance by, any of Menlo Logistics’ major customers, may have a material adverse effect on Con-way’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Similarly, the renegotiation of major customer contracts may also have an adverse effect on Con-way. Cyclicality Con-way’s operating results are affected, in large part, by conditions in the cyclical markets of its customers and on the U.S. and global economies. While economic conditions affect most companies, the transportation industry is cyclical and susceptible to trends in economic activity. When individuals and companies purchase and produce fewer goods, Con-way’s businesses transport fewer goods. In addition, Con-way’s business units in the Freight and Truckload reporting segments are capital-intensive and Con-way Freight has a relatively high fixed-cost structure that is difficult to adjust to match shifting volume levels. Accordingly, any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would have an adverse effect on Con-way. 9 Table of Contents Employees The workforce of Con-way and its subsidiaries is not affiliated with labor unions. Con-way believes that the non-unionized operations of its business units have advantages over comparable unionized competitors in providing reliable and cost-competitive customer services, including greater efficiency and flexibility. There can be no assurance that Con-way’s business units will be able to maintain their non-unionized status. Con-way hires drivers primarily for business units in its Freight and Truckload reporting segments. There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the transportation industry. As a result of driver shortages, these business units may be required to increase driver compensation and benefits, or face difficulty meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect Con-way. Employee Benefit Costs Con-way maintains health-care plans, defined benefit pension plans, and defined contribution retirement plans and also provides certain other benefits to its employees. In recent years, health-care costs have risen dramatically. Lower interest rates and/or lower returns on plan assets may cause increases in the expense of, and funding requirements for, Con-way’s defined benefit pension plans. Con-way amended its retirement benefit plans in 2006 and the resulting plan changes are generally expected to decrease the future financial-statement effect associated with the defined benefit pension plans and to increase the future financial-statement effect associated with the defined contribution retirement plans. Despite the changes to the retirement benefit plans, Con-way remains subject to volatility associated with interest rates, returns on plan assets, and funding requirements. As a result, Con-way is unable to predict the effect of continuing to provide these benefits to employees. Government Regulation Con-way is subject to compliance with many laws and regulations that apply to its business activities. These include regulations related to driver hours-of-service limitations, stricter cargo-security requirements, tax laws, and environmental matters. Con-way is not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or Con-way in particular. Although government regulation that affects Con-way and its competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed to customers with no adverse consequences, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. As a result, Con-way believes that any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations could result in additional costs and could have an adverse effect on Con-way. Capital Intensity Con-way’s primary businesses are capital-intensive. Con-way’s business units in the Freight and Truckload reporting segments make significant investments in revenue equipment and the Con-way Freight business unit also makes significant investments in freight service centers. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including anticipated volume levels, and the price and availability of appropriate-use property for service centers and newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines, which are subject to restrictive Environmental Protection Agency engine-design requirements. If anticipated service-center and/or fleet requirements differ materially from actual requirements, Con-way’s capital-intensive business units may have too much or too little capacity. Con-way attempts to mitigate the risk associated with too much or too little revenue equipment capacity by adjusting capital expenditures and by utilizing short-term equipment rentals in order to match capacity with business volumes. Con-way’s investments in revenue equipment and freight service centers depend on its ability to generate cash flow from operations and its access to debt and equity capital markets. A decline in the availability of these funding sources could adversely affect Con-way. 10 Table of Contents Price and Availability of Fuel Con-way is subject to risk associated with fuel purchases. The availability and price of diesel fuel are subject to political, economic, and market factors that are outside of Con-way’s control. Historically, Con-way has had the ability to obtain fuel from various sources and in the desired quantities. However, an inability to obtain fuel in the future could have a material adverse effect on Con-way. Con-way’s business units in the Freight, Truckload and Logistics reporting segments are subject to the risk of fuel price fluctuations. Con-way’s business units in the Freight and Truckload reporting segments have fuel-surcharge revenue programs in place with a majority of customers, and its Menlo Logistics business unit has terms in most of its customer contracts that allow recognition of fuel-surcharge revenue designed to eliminate the adverse effect of rising fuel prices on purchased transportation. Increases in fuel costs, if not offset by base freight rate increases, fuel surcharges or other cost-recovery mechanisms, may have an adverse effect on Con-way’s results of operations. Con-way’s fuel-surcharge revenue programs have helped to mitigate and, in some instances, eliminate the adverse effect of rising fuel prices. However, there can be no assurance that its fuel-surcharge programs will continue to be effective. Competitive pressures or other events may limit the ability of Con-way to assess its fuel surcharges. At times, in the interest of its customers, Con-way Freight has temporarily capped the fuel surcharge at a fixed percentage. In addition, Con-way Truckload may incur fuel costs that cannot be recovered because those costs are incurred in connection with engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. As fuel prices have risen, the fuel surcharge has increased Con-way Freight’s yield and revenues, and the business unit has more than recovered higher fuel costs and fuel-related increases in purchased transportation. However, because the fuel surcharge program is part of the overall rate structure for Con-way Freight, increases in fuel surcharges often adversely affect the base freight rates that Con-way Freight can otherwise charge to customers. Con-way Freight’s operating income may be adversely affected by a decline in fuel prices as lower fuel surcharges would reduce its yield and revenue unless the reduction was offset by increases in base freight rates and other accessorial charges. Whether fuel prices increase, decrease, or remain constant, Con-way Freight’s operating income may be adversely affected if market pressures limited Con-way Freight’s ability to assess its fuel surcharges. Con-way cannot predict future fuel prices, Con-way Freight’s ability to recover higher fuel costs through fuel surcharges, or the effect that changes in fuel surcharges may have on Con-way Freight’s overall rate structure. Integration of Acquisitions Con-way’s strategy for long-term growth and profitability depends in part on its ability to realize the expected benefits associated with acquisitions. The degree of success of the acquisitions will depend, in part, on Con-way’s ability to realize the anticipated cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating acquired businesses with Con-way’s existing businesses. Con-way’s success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the successful integration of operations. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of acquired businesses include, among others: unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; retaining customers and key employees; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; the effect on internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Con-way may not accomplish its integration plans smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of management from its current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent Con-way from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions and could adversely affect Con-way. 11 Table of Contents Other Factors In addition to the risks identified above, Con-way’s annual and quarterly operating results are affected by a number of business, economic, regulatory and competitive factors, including: • increasing competition and pricing pressure; • the creditworthiness of Con-way’s customers and their ability to pay for services rendered; • the effect of litigation, including the allegation that Con-way engaged in price-fixing of fuel surcharges in violation of Federal antitrust laws, and the alleged violations of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act in connection with employee layoffs and ultimate terminations due to the August 2001 grounding of EWA’s airline operations; • the possibility that Con-way may, from time to time, be required to record impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets; • the possibility of defaults under Con-way’s $400 million revolving credit agreement and other debt instruments, and the possibility that Con-way may be required to repay certain indebtedness in the event that the ratings assigned to its long-term senior debt by credit rating agencies are reduced; • labor matters, including grievances and related litigation by furloughed EWA pilots and crew members, labor-organizing activities, work stoppages or strikes; • matters relating to Con-way’s 1996 spin-off of CFC, including the possibility that CFC’s multi-employer pension plans may assert claims against Con-way, that Con-way may not prevail in those proceedings and that Con-way may not have the financial resources necessary to satisfy amounts payable to those plans; and • matters relating to the sale of MWF, including Con-way’s obligation to indemnify UPS for certain losses in connection with the sale. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED S TAFF COMMENTS None. 