ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Interruption CNF and its subsidiaries rely on CNF’s Administrative and Technology (“Adtech”) Center, a centralized shared-service facility in Portland, Oregon, for the performance of shared administrative and technology services in the conduct of their businesses. CNF’s computer facilities and its administrative and technology employees are located at the AdTech Center. Although CNF maintains backup systems and has disaster recovery processes and procedures in place, a sustained interruption in the operation of these facilities, whether due to terrorist activities, earthquakes, floods or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on CNF’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Customer Concentration Menlo Worldwide and many of its competitors in the third-party logistics segments are subject to risk related to customer concentration because of the relative importance of their largest customers and the increased ability of those customers to influence pricing and other contract terms. Although Menlo Worldwide continues to broaden and diversify its customer base, a significant portion of its revenue and operating results are derived from a relatively small number of customers, as more fully discussed in Item 1, “Business.” Consequently, a significant loss of business from, or adverse performance by, any of Menlo Worldwide’s major customers, particularly GM, may have a material adverse effect on CNF’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Similarly, the renegotiation of Menlo Worldwide’s major customer contracts may also have an adverse effect on CNF. Cyclicality CNF’s operating results are affected, in large part, by conditions in the cyclical markets of its customers and on the U.S. and global economies. Demand for transportation services fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions. Any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would have an adverse effect on CNF’s businesses. Employees The workforce of CNF and its subsidiaries is not affiliated with labor unions. CNF believes that the non-unionized operations of its subsidiaries have advantages over comparable unionized competitors in providing reliable and cost-competitive customer services, including greater efficiency and flexibility. There can be no assurance that CNF’s subsidiaries will be able to maintain their non-unionized status. CNF hires drivers primarily for its Con-Way business segment. There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the transportation industry. As a result of driver shortages, Con-Way may be required to increase driver compensation, utilize lower-quality drivers or face difficulty meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect CNF’s results of operations. Employee Benefit Costs CNF maintains health and welfare plans and a defined benefit pension plan, and provides certain other benefits to its employees. In recent years, health care costs have risen dramatically, and lower interest rates and returns on 9 Table of Contents plan assets have increased the expense of, and funding requirements for, CNF’s defined benefit pension plan. In addition, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation that may affect the ongoing cost and funding of the defined benefit pension plan. As a result, CNF is unable to predict the effect of continuing to provide these benefits to employees on CNF’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Government Regulation CNF is subject to compliance with many laws and regulations that apply to its business activities. These include regulations relating to hours of service for its drivers, and cargo security and transportation regulations issued by the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Transportation. CNF is not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or CNF in particular. Although government regulation that affects CNF and its competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed on to customers with no adverse consequences, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. As a result, CNF believes that any additional security and other measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations could result in additional costs and could have an adverse effect on its ability to serve customers and on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Price and Availability of Fuel CNF is exposed to the effects of changes in the availability and price of diesel fuel. Generally, fuel can be obtained from various sources and in the desired quantities. However, an inability to obtain fuel due to fuel shortages or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on CNF. CNF and its subsidiaries (primarily Con-Way) are subject to the risk of price fluctuations. Like other LTL carriers, Con-Way assesses many of its customers with a fuel surcharge. The fuel surcharge is a part of Con-Way’s overall rate structure for customers and is intended to compensate Con-Way for the adverse effects of higher fuel costs. As fuel prices have risen, the fuel surcharge has increased Con-Way’s yields and revenue, and Con-Way has more than recovered higher fuel costs and fuel-related increases in purchased transportation. At times, in the interest of its customers, Con-Way has temporarily capped the fuel surcharge at a fixed percentage. Following a sharp increase in fuel costs in the aftermath of hurricanes in the U.S., Con-Way imposed a temporary cap on its fuel surcharge in 2005 that was in effect from August 29 through October 24. CNF cannot predict the future movement of fuel prices, Con-Way’s ability to recover higher fuel costs through fuel surcharges, or the effect that changes in fuel surcharges may have on Con-Way’s overall rate structure. Con-Way’s operating income would likely be adversely affected by a rapid and significant decline in fuel prices as lower fuel surcharges would reduce Con-Way’s yield and revenue. Whether fuel prices increase, decrease, or remain constant, Con-Way’s operating income may be adversely affected if competitive pressures limited Con-Way’s ability to assess its fuel surcharges. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 