ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. We have identified a number of these factors below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations (MD&A). Our operations are weather sensitive. Our results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing production delays and property damage that require us to incur additional expenses. We are subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. We must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes that the necessary approvals have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, may require us to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed our estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. We use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge future sales of our gas and oil production, which may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. These hedge arrangements generally include collateral requirements that require us to deposit funds or post letters of credit with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. When commodity prices rise to levels substantially higher than the levels where we have hedged future sales, we may be required to use a material portion of our available liquidity and obtain additional liquidity to cover these collateral requirements. In some circumstances, this could have a compounding effect on our financial liquidity and results. Derivatives designated under hedge accounting to the extent not fully offset by the hedged transaction can result in ineffectiveness losses. These losses primarily result from differences in the location and specifications of the derivative hedging instrument and the hedged item and could adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity-based contracts, see Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 2 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our E&P business is affected by factors that cannot be predicted or controlled and that could damage facilities, disrupt production or reduce the book value of our assets. Factors that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to: damage to or suspension of operations caused by weather, fire, explosion or other events at our or third-party gas and oil facilities, fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, our ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas, operational risks that could disrupt production and geological and other uncertainties inherent in the estimate of gas and oil reserves. Short-term market declines in the prices of natural gas and oil could adversely affect our financial results by causing a permanent write-down of our natural gas and oil properties as required by the full cost method of accounting. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. If net capitalized costs exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge-adjusted period-end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test) at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write-down of the assets must be recognized in that period. In the past, we have maintained business interruption, property damage and other insurance for our E&P operations. However, the increased level of hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico led our insurers to terminate certain coverages for our E&P operations; specifically, our Operator’s Extra Expense (OEE), offshore property damage and offshore business interruption coverage was terminated. All onshore property coverage (with the exception of OEE) and liability coverage commensurate with past coverage remained in place for our E&P operations. Our OEE coverage for both onshore and offshore E&P operations was reinstated under a new policy. However, efforts to replace the terminated insurance for our E&P operations for offshore property damage and offshore business interruption with similar insurance on commercially reasonable terms were unsuccessful. This lack of insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Dominion’s decision to pursue a sale of most of our E&P assets is expected to be dilutive to earnings, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and may not yield the benefits expected. On November 1, 2006, Dominion announced its decision to pursue a sale of all of our E&P assets, excluding those assets located in the Appalachian Basin. Management expects that a sale 7 Table of Contents of our E&P assets would reduce our future earnings. While Dominion believes it would be able to execute any sale or sales by mid-2007, it may not be able to sell our E&P assets within the expected time frame. If Dominion sells our E&P assets, it cannot be certain of the price it would receive or the impact that such a sale and the use of proceeds from any sale would have on our results of operations. We may also incur significant costs or be required to record certain charges in connection with any sale and in connection with transactions related to the deployment of the proceeds from any sale. Additionally, uncertainty about the effect of the proposed disposition may have an adverse effect on the Company, particularly our E&P business. Although we have taken steps to reduce any adverse effects, including providing retention agreements for employees, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel and could cause partners, customers, suppliers and others that deal with our E&P business to seek to change future business relationships. Our E&P business could be harmed if, despite our retention efforts, key employees depart as a result of the proposed disposition. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of our business plan. We rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and banks as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and collateral requirements related to hedges of future gas and oil production not satisfied by the cash flows from our operations. Management believes that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of our control may increase our cost of borrowing or restrict our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to our credit ratings. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect our growth and business strategy. As of February 1, 2007, our senior unsecured debt is rated BBB, positive outlook, by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (Standard & Poor’s); A3, under review for possible downgrade, by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s); and BBB+, stable outlook, by Fitch Ratings Ltd. (Fitch). In order to maintain our current credit ratings in light of existing or future requirements, we may find it necessary to take steps or change our business plans in ways that may adversely affect our growth and earnings. A reduction in our credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results and could require us to post additional collateral in connection with some of our price risk management activities. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings or could increase reported liabilities. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our business strategy is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect our business and future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 