ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) The market value of the Company’s common stock is subject to various factors that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of the Company’s common stock depends on various factors, which may change from time-to-time and/or may be unrelated to the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition and such factors may cause significant fluctuations or volatility in the market price of the Company’s common stock. These factors include, among others, the following: • General economic and financial market conditions including a weak economic environment; • Level and trend of interest rates; • The Company’s ability to access the capital markets to raise additional capital; • The issuance of additional equity or debt securities; • Changes in the Company’s cash flows or results of operations; • The commencement of coverage by equity analysts; • The Company’s financial condition and performance; • Market perception of the Company compared to other real estate companies; and • Market perception of the real estate sector compared to other investment sectors. The Company’s failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, and share price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or ‘the Act,’ as amended or modified from time to time, requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting and therefore would likely not be in compliance with the Act. An effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for the Company to prepare and produce reliable financial reports and to maintain its qualification as a public company and are important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its business and operating results could be harmed, qualification as a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange MKT, or the NYSE MKT, could be jeopardized, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, and the trading price of the Company’s shares could drop significantly. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect the Company’s business and disrupt operations. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. Investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or changes in interest rates may require us to make significant additional cash contributions to our defined benefits pension plan. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan, which primarily covers retired employees. Effective December 31, 2011 participant benefits were frozen whereby there would be no future accruals after that date and no employees added to the plan. The Federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of these plans. Because it is unknown what the investment return on pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that future plan contributions required by lower than expected investment returns, or applicable law will not be material whereby any additional significant cash contributions to the plan may have an adverse impact on our cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 11 Table of Contents 