ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act could be costly. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could involve modifications to our income properties or golf operations. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our income properties or golf operations. Although we believe that our income properties and golf operation facilities are sufficiently in compliance with present requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or related laws or regulations could result in the United States government’s imposition of fines or in the award to private litigants of damages against us. Costs such as these, as well as the general costs of compliance with these laws or regulations, may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. Compliance with proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations increases our costs. The Dodd-Frank Act contains many regulatory changes and calls for future rulemaking that may affect our business. The final and complete set of regulations promulgating the Dodd-Frank Act has not yet been published. We are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate the potential impact of regulatory change under the Dodd-Frank Act and other changes in securities laws and regulations. The market value of the Company’s common stock is subject to various factors that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of the Company’s common stock depends on various factors, which may change from time-to-time and/or may be unrelated to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows and such factors may cause significant fluctuations or volatility in the market price of the Company’s common stock. These factors include, but are likely not limited to, the following: • General economic and financial market conditions including a weak economic environment; • Level and trend of interest rates; • The Company’s ability to access the capital markets to raise additional debt or equity capital; • Changes in the Company’s cash flows or results of operations; • The Company’s financial condition and performance; • Market perception of the Company compared to other real estate companies; and • Market perception of the real estate sector compared to other investment sectors. The Company’s failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, and share price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or ‘the Act,’ as amended or modified from time to time, requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting and therefore would likely not be in compliance with the Act. An effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for the Company to prepare and produce reliable financial reports and to maintain its qualification as a public company and are important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its business and operating results could be harmed, qualification as a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange MKT, or the NYSE MKT, could be jeopardized, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, and the trading price of the Company’s shares could drop significantly. Investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or changes in interest rates may require us to make significant additional cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plan. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan, which primarily covers retired employees. Effective December 31, 2011 participant benefits were frozen whereby there would be no future accruals after that date and no new employees added to the plan. In January 2014, the board of directors set the termination of the pension plan effective March 31, 2014, although there can be no assurance the pension plan will be terminated. The Federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in the pension plan. Because it is unknown what the investment return on pension assets will be or what interest rates may be prior to the final distribution of the assets in the pension plan to the beneficiaries, no assurances can be given that future plan contributions required by lower than expected investment returns, or applicable law will not be material whereby any additional significant cash contributions to the plan may have an adverse impact on our cash flows. The Company’s ability to pay dividends in the future is subject to many factors. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since 1976. The Company’s ability to continue to pay dividends may be adversely impacted if any of the risks described in this section were to occur. Payment of the Company’s dividend depends upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 