risk factors, along with the numbers of shares and warrants, except as otherwise provided in the amendment to our articles of incorporation establishing the Series A Preferred Stock, have been adjusted for the respective stock dividends paid December 31, 2004 and December 30, 2005. For further discussion concerning the Series A Preferred Stock, see Notes 1(i) and 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The three investors exercised their unit warrants in July, September and October 2005. Upon exercise, these three investors each acquired 1,338 shares of Series A-2 Preferred Stock, together totaling 4,014 shares. In addition, in connection with their unit warrant exercises, the three investors received additional warrants to purchase a total of 151,351 shares of Class A common stock at exercise prices ranging from $6.72 to $7.99 per share. The Series A-2 Preferred Stock is convertible into Class A common stock at prices ranging from $6.11 to $7.26 per common share. The conversion prices per common share could be reduced below these amounts if our Class A common stock trading price declines, therefore, increasing the number of Class A common stock shares we would be required to issue. In connection with the issuance of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and associated warrants in July 2004, the finders with respect to these transactions received, as part of the finders’ compensation, warrants to purchase 98,835 shares of Series A common stock at an exercise price of $6.95 per share. In connection with the issuances of Series A-2 Preferred Stock and associated warrants in 2005, the finders received, as part of the finders’ compensation, warrants to purchase 27,525 shares of Class A common stock at exercise prices ranging from $6.72 to $7.99. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock receive a 4% annual dividend that is payable by issuing Class A common stock. To date, we have paid all of these dividends by issuing our Class A common stock, and we intend to do so assuming we meet the conditions for issuance. Furthermore, we could be obligated to issue a significant number of shares of 54 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Class A common stock if the Series A Preferred Stock and warrants noted above are exercised and converted. In addition, members of our management and other affiliates owned approximately 5,793,000 shares of our Class A common stock, representing 13.3% of our outstanding Class A common stock as of December 31, 2006. Sale of a substantial number of the shares described above would likely have a significant negative affect on the market price of our Class A common stock. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of our Class A common stock, or if we issue a large number of shares of our Class A common stock in connection with future acquisitions, financings, or other circumstances, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of our Class A common stock could depress the market price of those shares. Provisions of our Series A Preferred Stock may prevent or make it more difficult for us to raise funds or take certain other actions. In July 2004, we completed the private placement to four institutional investors of (a) an aggregate of 25,000 shares of our Series A-1 Senior Convertible Preferred Stock, and (b) seven-year warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 543,790 shares of our Class A common stock at an exercise price of $6.95 per share. In addition, Series A-2 Preferred stock and additional warrants were issued upon the exercise, by three of the four institutional investors, of their unit warrants as discussed in the immediately foregoing risk factor. Provisions of the currently outstanding Series A Preferred Stock may require us to obtain the approval of the holders of such shares, or otherwise trigger rights of first refusal or payment provisions, to (a) incur debt or allow liens on our property, other than certain permitted debt and liens, (b) issue or sell additional shares of our Class A common stock, (c) amend our articles of incorporation so as to affect adversely any rights of the preferred shareholders, (d) authorize or create a new class of stock that will be senior or equal to the Series A Preferred Stock in terms of dividends, redemption or distribution of assets, or (e) take certain other actions. For example, we cannot incur debts of greater than $30 million without approval of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent future financings. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may obtain the right to require us to redeem their Series A Preferred Stock and we will be required to redeem any shares of Series A Preferred Stock that remain outstanding on the fifth anniversary of their issuance. The provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock require that if (i) at any time after the original issue date of the stock, the closing price of our Class A common stock for any 42 trading days, including a period not less than five consecutive trading days, is less than $4.80, or (ii) we issue Class A common stock or common stock equivalents for less than $6.11 per share, then the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may require us to redeem their shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of 55 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES payment and any applicable penalties. The preferred holders’ right to require a redemption has not been triggered under clause (i) or clause (ii) above. We will be required to redeem any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock that remain outstanding on the fifth anniversary after their issuance at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of such payment. We can elect to pay the redemption price in shares of our Class A common stock if: • the average closing price of our Class A common stock is $3.50 per share or above; • we have sufficient number of shares of Class A common stock available for issuance; • our Class A common stock is listed on NYSE or other eligible market; • the shares of Class A common stock to be issued are registered under an effective registration statement; • the shares to be issued can be issued without violating the rules of the NYSE or any applicable trading market or a provision of our agreement with the holders; • we have not filed for protection under applicable bankruptcy laws; and • certain other enumerated conditions. We would likely pay the redemption price of any Series A Preferred Stock in shares of our Class A common stock, assuming we met the foregoing criteria. The number of shares of Class A common stock that we would be required to issue to redeem the preferred stock would be determined by dividing the sum of the stated value of $500 per preferred share, plus accrued dividends at 4% per annum (paid quarterly), by the lesser of $6.11 or 95% of the volume weighted average price per share of the common stock for 15 days before the redemption date. The number of additional shares of common stock that we may be required to issue to redeem these shares of Series A Preferred Stock could have a significant dilutive effect on the book value of the shares of Class A common stock held by existing stockholders. However, there are provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock, that could, under certain circumstances, including failure to meet the requirements enumerated above, require us to pay part or all of the redemption price in cash rather than common stock. Another provision of the Series A Preferred Stock allows the preferred holders to require the Company to repurchase in cash (i) any shares of Series A Preferred Stock still held by the preferred shareholders and (ii) any shares of Class A common stock still held by the preferred shareholders pursuant to the provisions of the Preferred Stock if certain defined “Events” or other conditions occur and are not cured within specified time periods. The Events or other conditions generally consist of the failure to meet requirements such as or similar to those enumerated above during the period that ends on the earlier of (i) the fifth 56 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES anniversary of the initial registration statement filed to cover the resale of the preferred shareholders’ shares of Class A common stock or (ii) the date when all preferred shareholders’ shares of Class A common stock covered by that registration statement have been sold. If the preferred shareholders obtain the right to require redemption or repurchase of their shares of stock there can be no assurance that they will not elect to exercise that right. If we are required or elect to redeem shares of the Series A Preferred Stock using cash, we may have to curtail our expansion and acquisition plans. In that event, we would likely try to raise additional capital by issuing new stock, but there can be no assurance that capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 