risk factors below to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Citizens” and like terms relate to Citizens, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a U.S. GAAP consolidated financials basis, unless specifically identified otherwise. We operate our subsidiaries as separate and distinct entities with respect to corporate formalities. Risks Relating to the Business of Citizens A substantial amount of our revenue comes from foreign residents and is subject to risks associated with the possible application of foreign insurance and securities laws and regulations to our business, as well as risks from political and economic instability and currency or asset transfer restrictions. A substantial part of our insurance policy sales are from foreign countries, primarily those in Latin America and the Pacific Rim. There is a risk that we may lose a significant portion of these sales should adverse events occur in these countries. We do not accept insurance applications outside of the United States. All of our assets are in the United States and all policy premiums must be paid to us in U.S. Dollars drawn on U.S. banks. As a result, we have never qualified to do business in any foreign country and have never submitted our insurance policies issued to foreign residents for review by any insurance regulatory agency. We sell our policies to foreign residents using foreign independent marketing firms and consultants, and we rely on those persons to comply with applicable laws in selling our products and offering policyholders the opportunity to participate in our stock investment plan, which is administered in the United States by our transfer agent. 9 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES The government of a foreign country could determine that its residents may not buy life insurance from us unless we became qualified to do business in that country or unless our policies purchased by its residents receive prior approval of its insurance regulators. If this were to occur, our policy sales to that country’s residents would cease before any such approvals could be obtained. Also, there is no assurance that we would be able to qualify to do business in any foreign country or that its insurance regulatory authorities would approve our policies. We could also face sanctions, including fines and penalties, if a country’s authorities determined any failure to qualify or otherwise comply with its laws was willful or ongoing. Any of the foregoing could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we do not determine whether our independent marketing consultants are required to be licensed to sell insurance in the countries in which they make insurance sales. If our marketing consultants were not in compliance with applicable laws, including licensing laws, they could be required to cease operations, which would reduce our revenues. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdictions with respect to these matters. We are unable to quantify the effect of foreign regulation on our business if regulation were to be imposed on us, but we believe we could expend substantial amounts of time and incur substantial expense in complying with any foreign regulation, and we may decide to avoid a market if foreign regulation were imposed. The offer and sale of our Class A common stock through the Citizens, Inc. Stock Investment Plan (the “Plan”) is registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Most all of our foreign policyholders choose to invest certain cash benefits they receive with respect to their policies in our Class A common stock through the Plan, which is not registered in any foreign jurisdiction. We believe participation in the Plan by foreign policyholders broadens our shareholder base and enhances liquidity for our Class A shares. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdiction as to whether any such participation by foreign residents is subject to foreign securities laws or regulations or whether the independent marketing consultants are subject to licensing requirements in connection with foreign policyholder participation in the Plan. If a securities regulatory authority were to determine the offer and sale of our Class A common stock through the Plan were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, we could be faced with cease and desist orders, fines and penalties, and reduced participation in the Plan by our foreign policyholders. We could also be faced with private disputes relating to the Plan, including the possibility of securities law claims within the United States. In the absence of countervailing considerations, we would expect to defend any such claims and we could incur significant defense costs, including not only attorneys’ fees and other direct litigation costs, but also the expenditure of substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business. This could materially, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if economic or political crises were to occur in any of the countries where our foreign policyowners reside, our revenues would likely decline. Also, currency control laws, regulations and decrees in foreign countries, if implemented, could materially adversely affect our revenues by imposing restrictions on asset transfers outside of a country where our insureds reside. While our management has more than 40 years of experience in writing life insurance policies for foreign residents without any significant regulatory action or any lengthy currency controls relating to our foreign resident insureds, there can be no assurance that such situations will not occur and that our revenues, results of operations and financial condition will not be materially, adversely affected if they do occur. The United States and global financial markets have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. As a consequence, we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in equity prices, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due largely to the stresses affecting the global banking system, which accelerated significantly in the second half of 2008. The global economy has entered a severe recession that is likely to persist through and beyond 2009, despite significant past and expected governmental intervention in the world’s major economies. These circumstances have exerted significant downward pressure on prices of equity securities and virtually all other asset classes and have resulted in substantially increased market volatility, severely constrained credit and capital markets, particularly for financial institutions, and an overall loss of investor confidence. Economic conditions have continued to deteriorate in 2009. 10 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES As an insurance holding company with significant investment exposure, we have been adversely affected by the volatility and disruption in the global capital markets and face significant financial and capital markets risk in our operations. During the course of 2008, the significant declines in equity markets negatively impacted our invested assets. Unlike other life insurers, however, we were not invested in riskier debt investments, such as subprime, collateralized debt obligations or mortgage backed securities. Rather, throughout the history of the Company, including the current economic crisis, we have maintained a conservative investment portfolio in which we principally invest in debt securities of U.S. Government sponsored enterprises. Furthermore, we do not use leverage as part of our investment philosophy. Despite our conservative investment philosophy, we incurred $23.5 million in realized losses related to other-than-temporary impairments on our limited mutual fund positions in 2008, due to the significant volatility and decline in the financial markets. We expect continued downward pressure on these equity positions in 2009. In addition, the current severe recession could result in reduced persistency of our insurance policies in force, as well as reduced new insurance policy sales, which could be expected to materially, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unrealized losses may be realized. Our total gross unrealized losses on our securities portfolio at December 31, 2008 were $10.4 million net of tax compared to $3.8 million net of tax at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, the Company impaired its equity securities that were in a loss position and recorded a write-down to fair value in accordance with our other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) analysis based on current accounting guidance. The realized loss was $23.5 million and was recorded through income. Furthermore, there is the potential for future write downs relative to these equity securities if their fair values continue to decline and our OTTI analysis indicates such write downs are necessary. Currently, our debt securities are marked to market as an unrealized loss through equity. Although we intend to hold these debt instruments to maturity, realized losses or impairments may be required and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In 2008, we also permanently impaired two debt securities related to credit quality. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims and we may be required to establish additional reserves, which in turn may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated exposure for claims relating to our issued insurance policies. Reserves, whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, or statutory accounting practices prescribed by various state insurance regulators, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions that are determined by various regulatory authorities. Many reserve assumptions are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. In addition, when we acquire other domestic life insurance companies, our assessment of the adequacy of acquired policy liabilities is subject to our estimates and assumptions. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops, and adjustments to reserves are reflected in our statements of operations for the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, future developments may require us to increase claims reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the period in which such increase is reserved. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the costs of customer relationships acquired, which would increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2008, we had $109.1 million of deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. DAC represents costs that vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under GAAP, DAC is amortized to income over the lives of the underlying policies, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums. In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies. This intangible asset, called the cost of customer relationships acquired, or CCRA, represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies. At December 31, 2008, we had $33.8 million of CCRA. We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC. Our amortization of DAC and CCRA generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity, persistency and maintenance expense margins. For example, if our insurance policy lapse and surrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, or if actual persistency proves to be less than our persistency assumptions, especially in the early years of a policy, we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy. We regularly review the quality of our DAC and CCRA to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination. 11 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, surrender and other policy changes, mortality, morbidity, lapses or persistency may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or CCRA, or both, or to record a current period expense to increase benefit reserves, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to recognize an impairment in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire various life insurance companies over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the “reporting unit” level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected earnings or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of earnings by a reporting unit at a lower rate than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current-period expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We perform assessments of whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. No impairment of goodwill was identified by us in 2007 or 2008; however, we wrote off $1.0 million of goodwill in 2006. We are a defendant in lawsuits, which may adversely affect our financial condition and detract from the time our management is able to devote to our business, and we are subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory matters. We and certain of our insurance subsidiaries are defendants in various lawsuits described in Item 3 of this report, which could expose us to class action damages and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. These lawsuits are in various stages of discovery and procedural processes, and it is not possible to evaluate potential monetary exposure to us or our subsidiaries. In addition, litigating these cases is costly and can be time consuming. Reinsurers with which we do business could increase their premium rates and may not honor their obligations, leaving us liable for the reinsured coverage. We reinsure certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even if highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain replacement reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts or at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling or unable to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. In addition, our reinsurance facilities may be cancelled, pursuant to their terms, upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including a change of control of our Company (generally defined as the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting equity securities) or the failure of our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain the minimum required levels of statutory surplus. Any of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. For the majority of our business, we retain only the first $100,000 of risk on any one life and cede the remaining risk to our reinsurers. In 2008, we reinsured $302 million of face amount of our life insurance policies, and in 2007 we reinsured $274 million of face amount of our life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in 2008 and 2007 represented 6.1% and 5.7%, respectively, of the face amount of life insurance in effect in those years. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in premium rates, under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for reinsurance. If our cost of reinsurance were to increase, we might not be able to recover these increased costs, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Although our reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable to our policyholders as the direct insurer with respect to all reinsured risks. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to the credit risks of our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, underwriting results or investment returns may affect its ability to fulfill its reinsurance obligations to us. Our receivable from reinsurers was $13.2 million at December 31, 2008 and $13.5 million at December 31, 2007. 12 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES In addition, effective January 1, 2004, one of our insurance subsidiaries entered into a coinsurance agreement with an unaffiliated company under which it ceded substantially all of the accident and health insurance policies issued. Our subsidiary has established trust accounts totaling $5.5 million for payment to the coinsurance company for claims under these policies, which is in excess of statutory liabilities. To the extent the sums in the trust accounts are not sufficient to cover claims under such policies and the coinsurance company does not meet its obligations under the coinsurance agreement, our subsidiary would be contingently liable to the policyholders. We may not be able to continue our past strategy of acquiring other U.S. life insurance companies, and we may not realize improvements to our financial results as a result of our past or any future acquisitions. We have acquired 15 U.S. life insurance companies since 1987. Our objective in this strategy has been to increase our assets, revenues and capital, improve our competitive position and increase our earnings, in part by realizing certain operating efficiencies associated with economies of scale. Prior to 2004, increases in earnings from the completed acquisitions were not significant. We evaluate possible acquisitions of other insurance companies on an ongoing basis. While our business model is not dependent primarily upon acquisitions, the time frame for achieving or further improving our market positions can be shortened through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions presenting opportunities for continued growth and operating efficiencies will be available to us, or that we will realize the anticipated financial results from completed acquisitions. Even if we identify and complete insurance company acquisitions, we may be unable to integrate them on an economically favorable basis. Implementation of an acquisition strategy entails a number of risks, including, among others, inaccurate assessment of assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities and the failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our international and domestic operations face significant competition. Our international marketing plan focuses on making available U.S. Dollar-denominated life insurance products to high net worth, high income individuals residing in more than 35 countries. New competition could cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates thereby adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Although there are some impediments facing potential competitors that wish to enter the foreign markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into these markets may occur, affording our customers reason to change to other insurance providers. We experience competition primarily from the following sources with respect to our business with foreign residents, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have: • Foreign operated companies with U.S. Dollar policies. We face direct competition from companies that operate in the same manner as we operate in our international markets. These competitors include National Western Life Insurance Company, Best Meridian Insurance Company and, to a lesser extent, Pan American Life Insurance Company and American International Group. • Companies foreign to the countries in which policies are sold but that issue local currency policies. Another group of our competitors in the international marketplace consists of companies that are foreign to the countries in which the policies are sold but issue life insurance policies denominated in the local currencies of those countries. Local currency policies provide the benefit of assets located in the country of foreign residents, but entail risks of uncertainty due to local currency fluctuations, as well as the perceived instability and weakness of local currencies. • Locally operated companies with local currency policies. We compete with companies formed and operated in the country in which our foreign insureds reside. Generally, these companies are subject to risks of currency fluctuations, and they primarily use mortality tables based on experience of the local population as a whole. These mortality tables are typically based on significantly shorter life spans than those we use. As a result, the cost of insurance from these companies tends to be higher than ours. Although these companies typically market their policies to a broader section of the population than do our independent marketing firms and consultants, there can be no assurance that these companies will not endeavor to place a greater emphasis on our target market and compete more directly with us. 13 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES In the United States, we compete with more than 1,000 other life insurance companies of various sizes. The life insurance business in the United States is highly competitive, in part because it is a mature industry that, in recent years, has experienced little to no growth in life insurance sales. Many domestic life insurance companies have substantially greater financial resources, longer business histories and more diversified lines of insurance coverage than we do. These companies also have larger sales forces than we have. Competition in the United States has also increased recently because the life insurance industry is consolidating, with larger, more efficient organizations emerging from the consolidation. In addition, legislation became effective in 2000 that permits commercial banks, insurance companies and investment banks to combine. This legislation permits, for instance, a commercial bank to acquire or form an insurance company. We believe these factors have increased competitive pressures in the life insurance market in general. In addition, from time to time, companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices, or for other reasons. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in any of our markets. If we do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our products may be reduced if we are unable to (i) establish and maintain commercial relationships with independent marketing firms and consultants (ii) attract and retain employee agents or (iii) develop and maintain our distribution sources. We distribute our insurance products through several distribution channels, including independent marketing firms and consultants and our employee agents. These relationships are significant for both our revenues and our profits. In our life insurance segment, we depend almost exclusively on the services of independent marketing firms and consultants. In our home service insurance segment, we depend on employee agents whose role in our distribution process is integral to developing and maintaining relationships with policyholders. Significant competition exists among insurers to form relationships with marketers of demonstrated ability. Some of our competitors may offer better compensation packages for marketing firms, consultants and agents and broader arrays of products and have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower cost structures and greater financial strength or claims paying ratings than we do. We compete with other insurers for marketing firms, independent consultants and employee agents primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services. Any reduction in our ability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of the services of our senior management team would likely hinder development of our operating and marketing programs and our strategy for expanding our business. We rely on the active participation of our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Harold E. Riley (age 80), and our Vice Chairman of the Board and President, Rick D. Riley (age 55), in connection with the development and execution of our operating and marketing plans and strategy for expanding our business. We anticipate that their expertise will continue to be of substantial value in connection with our operations. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a significant adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not have an employment agreement with either of these persons nor do we carry a key-man insurance policy on either of their lives. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States, which increases our costs of doing business and could restrict the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in U.S. jurisdictions wherein we do business, as well as anti-money laundering regulations adopted under the U.S. Patriot Act. Insurance company regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, with substantially lesser protections to shareholders of the regulated insurance companies. To that end, laws of the various states in which we do business establish insurance regulatory agencies with broad powers with respect to such things as: licensing companies to transact business; mandating capital and surplus requirements; regulating trade and claims practices; approving policy forms; and restricting companies’ ability to enter and exit markets. The capacity for an insurance company’s growth in premiums is partially a function of its required statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by a company’s state of domicile, is considered important by insurance regulatory authorities. Failure to maintain required levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action by regulatory authorities. Most insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, suspend and revoke licenses and approvals, and could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, including acquisitions of other insurance companies, require us to add capital to our insurance company subsidiaries, or fine us. If we are unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, or if our insurance business is determined not to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Patriot Act, or a relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Changes in U.S. regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and limit our prospective growth. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can materially and adversely affect insurance companies, including our business. These areas include the U.S. Patriot Act, financial services regulation, securities regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. Our failure to maintain effective information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep up to date with technological advances. This is particularly important in our life insurance operations, where our information systems are critical to the operation of our business. Our failure to update these systems to reflect technological advancements or to protect our systems may adversely affect our business. We must maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If we do not maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including: inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserve decisions, regulatory problems, failure to meet prompt payment obligations, increases in administrative expenses and loss of customers. Some of our information technology systems and software are mainframe-based, legacy-type systems that require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. We continuously enhance and update our systems to keep pace with changes in our products and business models, information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and policyholder needs. Our success is in large part dependent on maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to integrate, develop and enhance our information systems to support business processes in a cost-effective manner. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and controls over financial reporting. To the extent that we may have not remedied these weaknesses or fail to maintain our current system of internal controls to an effective level with regard to material weaknesses, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. As a result, we could be required to restate our financial statements and be exposed to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation from investors and others. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we are unable to provide reliable financial reports, we could become subject to SEC and other regulatory review and sanctions, as well as litigation that could result in substantial fines, penalties or liabilities; and, our results of operations and financial condition and the market value of our securities could be materially and adversely affected as a result. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Our failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of customers, subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. We also have legal obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors. These obligations generally include protecting confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: monitoring our record retention plans and policies and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain current information. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that we deliver a notice regarding our privacy policy both at the delivery of an insurance policy and annually thereafter. Certain exceptions are allowed for sharing of information under joint marketing agreements. However, certain state laws may require us to obtain a policyholder’s consent before we share information. 15 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES We have a written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, loss of reputation and litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The insurance industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively impact our financial results. We interface with and distribute our products to individual consumers. There may be a perception that these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our products, thereby subjecting us to periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if another insurance company engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may result in lower sales of insurance, lower persistency of our insurance products, increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and impede our ability to market our products. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. General economic, financial market and political conditions may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions, both in the United States and in the foreign countries where our policy owners reside. These conditions include economic cycles such as: levels of consumer spending; levels of inflation; movements of the financial markets; availability of credit; fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy or demographics; and legislative and competitive changes. During periods of economic downturn, such as the one occurring in 2008 and 2009, our insureds may choose not to purchase our insurance products, may terminate existing policies or contracts, permit them to lapse or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, our sales of new business policies would decrease. Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by applicable laws and regulations in the amounts of fees, dividends and other distributions they may make to us. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us in sufficient amounts for us to conduct our operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations or expand our business. As a holding company, our principal asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely primarily on statutorily permissible payments from our insurance company subsidiaries, principally through service agreements we have with our subsidiaries, to meet our working capital and other corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make payments to us is subject to regulation by the states in which they are domiciled, and these payments depend primarily on approved service agreements between us and these subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the statutory surplus (which is the excess of assets over liabilities as determined under statutory accounting practices prescribed by an insurance company’s state of domicile), future statutory earnings (which are earnings as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices) and regulatory restrictions. Generally, the net assets of our insurance company subsidiaries available for dividends are limited to either the lesser or greater (depending on the state of domicile) of the subsidiary net gain from operations during the preceding year and 10% of the subsidiary’s net statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities. Total surplus of CICA as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $35.1 million, and gain from operations was $10.5 million. Based upon statutory net gain from operations and surplus of CICA for the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately $10.5 million of dividends could be paid to us in 2009 without prior regulatory approval. In late 2007 and 2008, SPLIC paid a $4.6 million and $5.7 million dividend to CICA, respectively. Funeral Homes of America paid a $255,000 dividend to CICA in 2007, but did not pay a dividend in 2008. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors and shareholders. If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, liquidates or otherwise reorganizes, our creditors and shareholders will have no right to proceed in their own right against the assets of that subsidiary or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. 16 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to debt and equity capital and our cost of capital in seeking to expand our business. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for over a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets exerted significant downward pressure on availability of debt and equity capital for certain issuers (including short term liquidity and credit capacity). We believe the availability of debt and equity capital has decreased significantly compared to prior years. The availability of equity and debt financing to us will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit capacity, as well as the possibility that investors or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to equity capital for us to seek to expand our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising debt or equity capital, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could adversely affect our ability to complete any acquisitions and negatively impact profitability numbers of an acquisition. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the world economy, which we do not expect to improve in the near future, generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The current recession in the U.S. and elsewhere has contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the world economy and the equity and debt markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a global recession. As a result, domestic and international equity markets have been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers in the financial services industry particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse impact on us, in part because we are dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues could decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and the value of money all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal incomes, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of lapses or surrenders of our insurance policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in the domestic and global economy could therefore affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the U.S. banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets and invest in financial services companies. The Federal Government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the current financial crisis, including purchases of commercial paper. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which provided for federal spending and tax cuts, estimated in the aggregate to be approximately $789 billion, for the purpose of job preservation and creation, infrastructure investment, energy efficiency and science, unemployment assistance, state and local government fiscal stabilization and other associated purposes. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the high levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our Class A common stock. 17 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our Class A common stock price is likely to fluctuate in the future and could decline materially because of the volatility of the stock market in general and as a result of a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: quarterly or annual variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; interest rate fluctuations; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; competition and other factors affecting the life insurance business generally; and conditions in the U.S. and world economies. Our Class A common shareholders will not control us for the foreseeable future, will have a limited ability to influence our business policies and corporate actions and will not by themselves be able to elect any directors. It is difficult for minority shareholders to elect any of our directors or otherwise exert influence over our business. Holders of our outstanding Class B common stock are entitled to elect a simple majority of our board of directors and are therefore deemed our ultimate controlling party. All of our Class B common stock is currently owned indirectly by the Harold E. Riley Trust of which Harold E. Riley, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, is the sole trustee. Additionally, Harold E. Riley beneficially owns approximately 7.3% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable state insurance laws, may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as various state insurance laws, may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a takeover attempt our shareholders might consider in their best interests. As a result, our shareholders will be prevented from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Class A common stock that may be offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. The following provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for our Class A shareholders to replace or remove our directors and have other anti-takeover effects that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt: • holders of shares of our Class B common stock elect a simple majority of our board of directors, and all of these shares are owned by the Harold E. Riley Trust; and • our board of directors may issue one or more series of preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders. State insurance laws generally require prior approval of a change in control of an insurance company. Generally, such laws provide that control over an insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, an insurance commissioner generally will consider such factors as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. In addition, a person seeking to acquire control of an insurance company is required in some states to make filings prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and the target insurance company and their affiliates have sufficiently large market shares in particular lines of insurance in those states. These state insurance requirements may delay, deter or prevent our ability to complete an acquisition. We have never paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock, as it is our policy to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. 18 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES There are a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of a large number of these shares could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. There were 45,646,015 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, excluding treasury shares, as of March 1, 2009. Our executive officers, directors and management owned approximately 5,300,000 shares of our Class A common stock as of this date, representing approximately 10% of our then outstanding Class A common stock. These shares have been registered for public resale and may be sold freely. In addition, a total of 2,749,372 shares of our Class A common stock are issuable upon the conversion of our Series A-1 and Series A-2 preferred stock and the exercise of warrants granted in connection therewith. We have a registration statement currently in effect that allows the public resale of all such shares of Class A common stock. If our preferred and common shareholders sell a large number of shares of our Class A common stock, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our shareholders might sell shares of our Class A common stock could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. Holders of our Series A preferred stock may obtain the right to require us to redeem their Series A preferred stock and we will be required to redeem any shares of Series A preferred stock that remain outstanding on July 12, 2009. We will be required to redeem any shares of our Series A preferred stock that remain outstanding on July 12, 2009 at the original investment price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends. We can elect to pay the redemption price in shares of our Class A common stock if: (i) the average closing price of the stock is in excess of $3.50 per share for a period of ten consecutive trading days prior to (but not including) the date that is three trading days prior to the date of redemption; (ii) the stock is listed on NYSE or other eligible market; and (iii) the stock to be issued is registered under a registration statement effective with the SEC. We intend to pay the redemption price of our Series A preferred stock in shares of our Class A common stock to the extent the conditions described above are satisfied and we are permitted to do so. The number of shares of our Class A common stock that we issue to redeem these shares of Series A preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on the book value of the shares of Class A common stock held by existing holders. However, provisions of our Series A preferred stock could require us to pay part or all of the redemption price in cash, rather than in shares of our Class A common stock, under certain circumstances, including failure to meet the conditions described above. The provisions of our Series A preferred stock require that if (i) the closing price of our Class A common stock for any 42 trading days, including a period not less than five consecutive trading days, is less than $4.80, or (ii) we issue Class A common stock or common stock equivalents for less than $6.11 per share, then the holders of our Series A preferred stock may require us to redeem their shares of Series A preferred stock at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of payment. If we are required, or elect, to redeem shares of our Series A preferred stock for cash, we may have to curtail our growth and acquisition plans. Provisions applicable to our Series A preferred stock may make it more difficult or prevent us from raising funds or taking certain other actions. Certain provisions applicable to the outstanding shares of our Series A preferred stock trigger rights of first refusal or payment provisions and require us to obtain the approval of the holders of such shares to (i) incur debt or allow liens on our property, other than certain permitted debt and liens, (ii) amend our articles of incorporation so as to affect adversely any rights of the preferred stockholders, (iii) authorize or create a new class of stock that will be senior or equal to our Series A preferred stock in terms of dividends, redemption or distribution of assets or (iv) take certain other specified actions. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to take certain corporate actions and could delay, deter or prevent future financings and our ability to make acquisitions. In all other offerings of our shares of Class A common stock, such as a private placement of shares, unless certain limited exceptions apply, the holders of our Series A preferred stock will generally be entitled to purchase up to 50% of the number of shares of our Class A common stock offered by us. These preemptive rights could delay, deter or prevent future equity financings. 19 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 