risk factors as well. In addition, certain statements in future filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of the Company which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenues, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure, and other financial items, (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors including those relating to products or services, (iii) statements of future economic performance and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “targeted,” “may,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from expected results include, but are not limited to: • Changes in foreign and U.S. general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; • Changes in consumer behavior, which may affect the Company’s ability to sell its products and retain business; • The timely development of and acceptance of new products and perceived overall value of these products and services by existing potential customers; • Fluctuations in experience regarding current mortality, morbidity, persistency and interest rates relative to expected amounts used in pricing the Company’s products; • Changes in assumptions related to deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired; • Regulatory, accounting or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or the demand for, the Company’s products or services; A concentration of business from persons residing in Latin America and the Pacific Rim; and, the success of the Company at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We make available, free of charge, through our Internet website (http://www.citizensinc.com), our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports filed by officers and directors, news releases, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We are not including any of the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I ITEM 1. Business Overview We are an insurance holding company serving the life insurance needs of individuals in the United States and in more than 35 countries around the world. We pursue a strategy of offering ordinary whole life insurance with a focus on cash accumulation and final expense insurance products in niche markets where we believe we are able to achieve competitive advantages. Our core operations include issuing and servicing: • U.S. Dollar-denominated ordinary whole life insurance policies predominantly to high net worth, high income foreign residents, principally in Latin America and the Pacific Rim, through approximately 2,600 independent marketing consultants; 2 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES • ordinary whole life insurance policies to middle income households in the Midwest and the southern United States through approximately 600 independent marketing consultants; and • final expense and limited liability property policies to middle to lower income households in Louisiana through approximately 300 employee agents in our home service distribution channel. We have provided our insurance products internationally since 1975 and domestically since 1969. We believe we are one of the leading writers of U.S. Dollar-denominated ordinary whole life insurance outside of the United States. In October 2004, we entered the home service distribution channel in Louisiana through our acquisition of Security Plan Life Insurance Company (“SPLIC”) and its subsidiary, Security Plan Fire Insurance Company (“SPFIC”), (collectively referred to as “Security Plan”), a provider of final expense ordinary whole life insurance and limited liability property insurance. We believe that the foreign markets we target have a relatively limited number of competitors and that the domestic markets we target are underserved by the life insurance industry, and that these markets therefore offer attractive opportunities for expansion. We capitalize on the experience of our management team in our marketing operations and achieve economies of scale in our administrative operations. We seek to generate above-average returns using knowledge of our niche markets and our well-established distribution channels. We believe that our underwriting processes, policy terms and pricing practices enable us to generate meaningful gross profit margins. We provide underwriting, investment and administrative functions through approximately 90 employees in our executive offices in Austin, Texas and approximately 65 employees in Louisiana, primarily concentrated in Donaldsonville. We were formed in 1969 by our Chairman, Harold E. Riley. Prior to our formation, Mr. Riley had many years of experience in the international and domestic life insurance business. Our business has grown significantly, both internationally and domestically, in recent years. Revenues rose from $142.1 million in 2005 to $173.8 million in 2007. During the five years ended December 31, 2007, our assets grew from $390.1 million to $787.9 million. Total stockholders’ equity increased from $127.0 million at December 31, 2003 to $176.2 million at December 31, 2007. See Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” in this report. Our Operating Segments Our business is comprised of three primary operating business segments: • Life Insurance; • Home Service Insurance; and • Other Non-insurance Enterprises. See Note 9 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for operating results of our segments, for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Life Insurance Our Life Insurance segment consists of issuing ordinary whole life insurance in U.S. Dollar-denominated amounts to foreign residents and domestically through independent marketing firms and consultants. For the majority of our business, we retain only the first $100,000 of risk on any one life. International We focus on sales of U.S. Dollar-denominated ordinary whole life insurance policies to high net worth, high income residents in Latin America and the Pacific Rim. We have successfully participated in the foreign marketplace since 1975. We believe positive attributes of our international insurance business include: • policies are typically larger face amounts than in our U.S. operations, resulting in lower underwriting and administrative costs per policy; 3 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES • premiums are paid annually rather than monthly or quarterly, which saves us administrative expenses, accelerates cash flow and results in lower policy lapse rates than premiums with more frequently scheduled payments; • persistency is generally higher than U.S. policies; • our mortality rates are as good or better than those in the United States because our foreign insureds are high net worth individuals, with lifestyles less prone to early death than the general population, in the top income brackets in their respective countries; and • we do not advance commissions, so we do not have financial exposure in the event monies are advanced and insurance revenues do not cover the advances. We have implemented several policies and procedures to reduce the risks of asset and premium loss in our international operations. We have no offices, employees or assets outside of the United States. All of our premiums must be paid in U.S. Dollars through a U.S. financial institution by check, wire or credit card. The policies we issue contain limitations on benefits for certain causes of death, such as homicide and careless driving. We have also developed disciplined underwriting criteria, which include medical reviews of applicants and background and reference checks. We have a claims policy that requires an investigation of substantially all death claims. Additionally, we perform background reviews and reference checks of prospective marketing firms and consultants. We accept applications for international insurance policies submitted by independent marketing firms and consultants. These persons specialize in marketing life insurance products and generally have several years of insurance marketing experience. We maintain standard contracts with the independent marketing firms pursuant to which they provide recruitment, training and supervision of their managers and associates in the placement of our products; however, all associates of these firms also contract directly with us as independent contractors and receive their compensation directly from us. Accordingly, should an arrangement between any independent marketing firm and us be terminated for any reason, we believe we would continue with the existing marketing arrangements with the associates of these firms without a material loss of sales. Our standard agreement with independent marketing firms and consultants provides that they are independent contractors responsible for their expenses and they are the representative of the prospective insured. In addition, the marketing firms also guarantee any debts of their associates to us. The marketing firms receive commissions on all new and renewal policies placed by them or their associates. All of these contracts provide that the independent marketing firms and consultants are responsible for compliance with local laws. We provide training materials to our independent marketing firms and consultants and if they are initially successful in obtaining certain levels of policy sales, we will provide training for them at our facility near Austin, Texas. We also provide selected marketing materials to these firms and consultants. Insurance policy applications and premium payments in U.S. Dollars are submitted by the independent consultants to us and we review the applications in our home offices in Austin, Texas. We require medical exams of our prospective insureds through a network of physicians we have developed. Approvals for policy issuance are made in our Austin office and policies are issued and delivered to our independent consultants, who deliver the policies to the insureds. The following table sets forth, by territory, our total percentages of direct collected premiums from our international life insurance business for the periods indicated. The information is presented in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed by the state of Colorado, the state of domicile of our subsidiary that writes all of our international business, CICA Life Insurance Company of America (“CICA”). 4 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Years ended December 31, Country 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Colombia $ 24,352 26.2 % $ 22,879 28.0 % $ 20,572 30.1 % Taiwan 12,567 13.5 10,077 12.3 7,008 10.2 Venezuela 11,631 12.5 8,907 10.9 7,178 10.5 Ecuador 9,641 10.4 7,410 9.1 5,259 7.7 Argentina 9,099 9.8 8,975 11.0 8,419 12.3 Other Non-U.S. 25,525 27.5 23,500 28.7 20,008 29.2 Total $ 92,815 100.0 % $ 81,748 100.0 % $ 68,444 100.0 % The ordinary whole life policies issued to residents of foreign countries during 2007 had an average face amount of approximately $64,000. Domestic In the Midwest and the southern United States, we seek to serve middle income households through the sale of cash accumulation ordinary whole life insurance products. The majority of this business has been blocks of business of insurance companies we have acquired over the past 15 years. Our distribution strategy is geared towards attracting marketing consultants, comprised primarily of part-time, second-career sales associates (such as teachers, coaches, community leaders and others), in rural and urban areas. We are increasing recruitment of new consultants in selected markets. In the United States, our domestic sales and marketing is conducted predominantly through independent marketing consultants. Our product strategy is to introduce our cash accumulation ordinary whole life products to newly appointed independent marketing consultants of companies we have acquired, while continuing to service the needs of acquired policyholders. The average policy size for this market is $25,000 to $50,000, with sales emphasis on the living benefit features embedded in our products. Over the past three years, new product sales have trended downward as we have tightened underwriting on business that did not meet our profitability objectives. The following table sets forth our direct collected premiums by state for the periods indicated, in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed by the states of domicile of our insurance company subsidiaries. Years ended December 31, State 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Texas $ 7,481 39.8 % $ 7,962 39.6 % $ 9,172 38.6 % Missouri 2,309 12.3 2,519 12.5 2,648 11.1 Kentucky 2,224 11.8 2,436 12.1 2,936 12.3 Oklahoma 2,136 11.4 2,363 11.8 3,481 14.6 Other States 4,635 24.7 4,829 24.0 5,555 23.4 Total $ 18,785 100.0 % $ 20,109 100.0 % $ 23,792 100.0 % A number of domestic life insurance companies we have acquired also had issued blocks of accident and health insurance policies, which we did not consider to be a core part of our business. Effective January 1, 2004, we entered into a coinsurance agreement with an unaffiliated insurance company under which it assumed substantially all of our accident and health policies. The premium amounts ceded under the coinsurance agreement in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $8.2 million, $8.9 million and $10.8 million, respectively. 5 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Home Service Insurance On October 1, 2004, following our acquisition of Security Plan, we established our Home Service Insurance segment. SPLIC has conducted its operations since 1948. It focuses on the life insurance needs of the middle to lower income market in Louisiana. SPLIC predominantly sells ordinary whole life products to provide a means of funding individuals’ final expenses, primarily consisting of funeral and other burial costs. The policies are sold and serviced through SPLIC’s home service marketing distribution system of approximately 300 employee agents who work full time on a route system to sell policies, collect premiums and service policyholders. Over its history, SPLIC’s life insurance sales have been supplemented by the acquisition of numerous home service companies in Louisiana. The face amount of SPLIC’s average life insurance policy is relatively small, approximately $7,000 per policy issued in 2007, and therefore the underwriting performed on these applications is limited. SPLIC’s premium income decreased each year from 2001 until we acquired it on October 1, 2004. We replaced SPLIC’s marketing leadership in 2005 and believe that our renewed emphasis on sales and marketing have reversed the decline in the premium base and serves as a foundation from which to expand. The new premium growth over the past two years occurred despite the hurricanes in Louisiana in 2005, which significantly disrupted SPLIC’s customer base. We offer limited liability, named peril property coverage to middle to lower income residents of Louisiana through SPFIC, which utilizes many of the same employee agents as SPLIC and functions primarily to generate leads for SPLIC’s life insurance sales. SPFIC’s policies provide maximum coverage on any one dwelling and contents of $30,000, and content only coverage and dwelling only coverage is limited to $20,000. At December 31, 2007, SPFIC had total assets of approximately $5.8 million and revenues for the year then ended of approximately $5.1 million. Other Non-Insurance Enterprises Other Non-insurance Enterprises includes Computing Technology, Inc., which provides data processing services to the Company, Insurance Investors, Inc., which provides aviation transportation to the Company, and Funeral Homes of America, a small Louisiana funeral home. This segment also includes the results of Citizens, the parent Company. Our Products Life Insurance International. We offer several ordinary whole life insurance products designed to meet the needs of our non-U.S. policy owners. These policies have been structured to provide: • U.S. Dollar-denominated cash values that accumulate, beginning in the first policy year, to a policyholder during his or her lifetime; • premium rates that are competitive with or better than most foreign local companies; • a hedge against local currency inflation; • protection against devaluation of foreign currency; • capital investment in a more secure economic environment (i.e., the United States); and • lifetime income guarantees for an insured or for surviving beneficiaries. 6 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Our international products have living benefit features. Every policy contains guaranteed cash values and is participating (i.e., provides an annual cash dividend). The major portion of each premium payment is used to provide insurance protection and build guaranteed cash values, while a lesser portion is used for retirement benefit accumulation. Once a policy owner pays the annual premium and the policy is issued, we immediately pay a cash dividend to the owner. The policy owner has several options with regard to the dividend, including the right to assign dividends to our stock investment plan that is administered in the United States by our unaffiliated transfer agent and is registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). Domestic. The life insurance products we sell domestically focus primarily on living needs and provide benefits focused toward accumulating money for the insured. The features of our domestic life insurance products include: • cash accumulation/living benefits; • tax-deferred interest earnings; • guaranteed lifetime income at age 65; • monthly income for surviving family members; • accidental death benefit coverage options; and • an option to waive premium payments in the event of disability. Our life insurance products are principally designed to address the insured’s concern about outliving his or her monthly income, while at the same time providing death benefits in case of an early demise. The primary purpose of our product portfolio is to help the insured create capital for needs such as retirement income, children’s higher educational funds, business opportunities, emergencies and healthcare needs. Home Service Insurance Our home service insurance products consist primarily of small face amount ordinary whole life policies, which are designed to fund final expenses for the insured, primarily consisting of funeral and burial costs. To a much lesser extent, our Home Service Insurance segment sells limited liability, named peril property policies covering dwellings and contents. We intend to continue emphasis upon growth within this segment via direct sales and acquisitions. Operations and Technology Our administrative operations are conducted primarily at our executive offices in Austin, Texas through approximately 90 administrative, operating and underwriting personnel. Operations of Security Plan are conducted to a large degree from our district offices and support center in Donaldsonville, Louisiana through approximately 65 operations personnel. During 2008, continued consolidation of certain administrative functions is expected. At our executive offices, we perform policy design, marketing oversight, underwriting, accounting, customer service and administration of our investment portfolios. Our senior management has a history in insurance company application system design and implementation. Since the mid-1960’s, our senior management has been leading development of evolving insurance applications. We have a single integrated system for our entire Company, which is a centrally-controlled, mainframe-based administrative system. Since early 2005, we have been converting Security Plan’s administrative system to our processing system. The transition was substantially completed at December 31, 2007. Functions of our administrative system include policy set up, administration, billing and collections, commission calculation, valuation, automated audit functions, storage backup and related tasks. Each company we acquire is converted onto our administrative system. This system has been in place for many years, and we believe it is a significant asset to us. We update our administrative system on an ongoing basis. This system is also capable of significant expansion without substantial capital outlay or increase in staff. Therefore, we believe we can achieve additional growth without costly administrative system expenditures, delays or failures or the addition of substantial amounts of staff. 7 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Competition The life insurance business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of stock and mutual life companies both internationally and domestically, as well as with financial institutions that offer insurance products. There are more than 1,000 life insurance companies in the United States, some of which also provide insurance to foreign residents. Given the variety of the foreign markets in which we provide ordinary whole life insurance, it is not possible to ascertain our competitive position. We face competition primarily from companies formed and operated in the country in which the insureds reside, from companies that operate in the same manner as we do and from companies that are foreign to the countries in which policies are sold, but issue insurance policies denominated in the local currency of those countries. Competitors in our international markets who operate in the same manner as we do include National Western Life Insurance Company, Best Meridian Insurance Company and, to a lesser extent, Pan American Life Insurance Company and American International Group, although these companies tend to focus on non-traditional life insurance and annuity products. A substantial amount of companies may be deemed to have a competitive advantage over us due to their significantly greater financial resources, histories of successful operations and larger marketing forces. We believe that our experience, combined with the special features of our policies, allow us to compete effectively in pursuing new business. Because premiums on our international policies must be paid in U.S. Dollars drawn on U.S. banks, and we pay claims in U.S. Dollars, we provide a product that is different from the products provided by foreign-domiciled companies. Our international policies are usually acquired by significant net worth persons in the top income brackets of their respective countries. The policies sold by our local competitors are generally offered broadly and are priced based on the mortality of the entire population of the geographic region. Because of the predominance of lower incomes in most of these countries, the mortality experience tends to be higher on average compared to the United States, causing mortality charges that are higher than they would be if they were based on the mortality experience of only the local population in the upper net worth and income categories. Additionally, the assets backing the reserves for the foreign company policies must be substantially invested in the respective countries and, therefore, are exposed to the inflationary risks and social or economic crises that tend to impact many foreign countries. The U.S. life insurance industry is a mature industry that, in recent years, has experienced little to no growth. Competition is intense because the life insurance industry is consolidating, with larger, more efficient and more effective organizations emerging from consolidation. Additionally, legislation became effective in the United States in the year 2000 that permits commercial banks, insurance companies and investment banks to combine. These factors have increased competitive pressures in general. Many domestic life insurance companies have significantly greater financial, marketing forces and other resources, longer business histories and more diversified lines of insurance products than we do. We also face competition from companies marketing in person as well as with direct mail sales campaigns. Although we may be at a competitive disadvantage to these entities, we believe that our premium rates and policy features are generally competitive with those of other life insurance companies selling similar types of ordinary whole life insurance. In the Home Service segment, we face competition in Louisiana from other companies that specialize in home service distribution of insurance. Competitors include American General Life Insurance Company, American National Life Insurance Company, Kilpatrick Life Insurance Company, Monumental Life Insurance Company and Union National Life Insurance Company. SPLIC also competes indirectly with other domestic life insurance companies operating in Louisiana. Security Plan competes based upon its emphasis on personal service to its customers. Investments State insurance statutes prescribe the quality and percentage of the various types of investments that may be made by insurance companies and generally permit investment in qualified state, municipal, federal and foreign government obligations, high quality corporate bonds, preferred and common stock, real estate and mortgage loans within certain specified percentages. 8 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES The administration of our investment portfolios is handled by our management, pursuant to board-approved investment guidelines, with all trading activity approved by a committee of the respective boards of directors of our insurance company subsidiaries. The guidelines used require that bonds, both government and corporate, are of high quality and comprise a majority of the investment portfolio. The assets selected are intended to mature in accordance with the average maturity of the insurance products and to provide the cash flow for our insurance company subsidiaries to meet their respective policyholder obligations. Valuation of Investments in Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities At December 31, 2007, investments in fixed maturity and equity securities were 91.6% of our total investments. All of our fixed maturities were classified as available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2007 and thus are reported on our consolidated financial statements at fair value; equity securities are also reported at fair value. We had no fixed maturity or equity securities that were classified as trading securities at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, 68.3% of our fixed maturity securities were invested in U.S. Government-sponsored enterprises or securities backed by the U.S. Government. We evaluate the carrying value of our fixed maturity and equity securities at least quarterly. A decline in the fair value of any fixed maturity or equity security below cost that is deemed other-than-temporary is charged to earnings resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in the fair value of the fixed maturity or equity security. With the exception of Security Plan, virtually all of our subsidiaries’ fixed maturity investments are in U.S. Government or U.S. Government-sponsored enterprises or U.S. Government instruments. Security Plan has significant investments in corporate and municipal bonds. Based upon our emphasis on investing in fixed maturity securities primarily composed of obligations of U.S. Government-sponsored corporations, our intent and ability to hold temporarily impaired fixed maturities until recovery, and our analysis of whether declines in fair value below cost are temporary or other-than-temporary, management believes that our investments in fixed maturity at December 31, 2007 were not impaired, and no other-than-temporary losses needed to be recorded. The Company’s equity securities consist of mutual funds acquired in 2007, and thus any declines in value have recently arisen. The Company will continue to monitor these investments. At December 31, 2007, there were no other-than-temporary impairments. Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities available-for-sale amounted to $4.7 million as of December 31, 2007 and $10.9 million as of December 31, 2006. The decrease in unrealized losses from year end 2006 to year end 2007 was primarily due to decreases in market interest rates during 2007. Gross unrealized losses on equity securities amounted to $1.2 million at December 31, 2007. Information on unrealized gains and losses by category is set forth in our consolidated financial statements, Note 2 — Investments in the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.” The following table shows the carrying value of our investments by investment category and cash and cash equivalents, and the percentage of each to total invested assets. 9 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES The following table shows the distribution of the credit ratings of our portfolio of fixed maturity securities by carrying value as of December 31, 2007. December 31, 2007 Carrying Value Percent of Total (In thousands) Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Government-sponsored corporations and U.S. Government agencies (1) $ 292,951 48.3 % Mortgage-backed (2) 54,718 9.0 Corporate 84,051 13.9 Municipal bonds 64,639 10.7 Public utilities 3,942 0.6 Foreign governments 125 — Total fixed maturity securities 500,426 82.5 Cash and cash equivalents 21,123 3.5 Short-term investments 17,650 2.9 Other investments: Policy loans 25,490 4.2 Equity securities 35,669 5.9 Mortgage loans 291 — Real estate and other long-term investments 5,770 1.0 Total cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 606,419 100.0 % (1) Includes U.S. Treasury securities of $12,991 and U.S. Government-sponsored corporations of 279,960. (2) Includes $48,634 of U.S. Government agencies and government-sponsored corporations. December 31, 2007 Carrying Value % AAA and U.S. Government $ 416,647 83.2 % AA 24,948 5.0 A 52,410 10.5 BBB 3,625 0.7 BB and other 2,796 0.6 Totals $ 500,426 100.0 % Reinsurance As is customary among insurance companies, our insurance company subsidiaries reinsure with other companies portions of the life insurance risks they underwrite. A primary purpose of reinsurance agreements is to enable an insurance company to reduce the amount of risk on any particular policy and, by reinsuring the amount exceeding the maximum amount the insurance company is willing to retain, to write policies in amounts larger than it could without such agreements. Even though a portion of the risk may be reinsured, our insurance company subsidiaries remain liable to perform all the obligations imposed by the policies issued by them and could be liable if their reinsurers were unable to meet their obligations under the reinsurance agreements. 10 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES We believe that we have established appropriate reinsurance coverage based upon our net retained insured liabilities compared to our surplus. The effect of reinsurance on premiums is as follows: Years ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Direct premiums $ 150,566 139,181 129,570 Reinsurance assumed 1,462 1,126 571 Reinsurance ceded (11,123 ) (11,811 ) (13,867 ) Net premiums $ 140,905 128,496 116,274 CICA monitors the solvency of its reinsurers in seeking to minimize the risk of loss in the event of a failure by a reinsurer. The primary reinsurers of CICA are large, well capitalized entities. The effect of reinsurance on life insurance inforce is as follows: At December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) Direct written life insurance inforce $ 4,168 3,971 3,687 Reinsurance assumed 644 670 593 Reinsurance ceded (274 ) (259 ) (222 ) Net life insurance inforce $ 4,538 4,382 4,058 11 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Virtually all of the Company’s on-credit accident and health insurance is reinsured with and administered by Texas International Life Insurance Company (TILIC), an unaffiliated party. The reinsurance recoverable under this agreement are collateralized by assets held in a trust for the benefit of the Company. The Company monitors the credit ratings of our life and property reinsurers. The ratings by A.M. Best range from B+ to A+. SPFIC had reinsurance agreements in place to protect it from catastrophic events such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that struck Louisiana in 2005. The agreements in place during 2005 provided that SPFIC bore responsibility for the first $250,000 of incurred claims. Reinsurers indemnified SPFIC for losses in excess of $250,000 up to $7.1 million per event. Any amount over that was SPFIC’s responsibility. This ceiling proved to be inadequate for the 2005 hurricanes. For calendar year 2006, SPFIC elected to increase the amount of first and second event catastrophe reinsurance to $10.0 million per event and raise the retention level to $500,000 per event. Thus, the first $500,000 of incurred claims and any claims in excess of $10.0 million were SPFIC’s responsibility. The same reinsurance levels are in place for 2007. The reinsurance premium for first event catastrophe reinsurance was $840,000 in 2007 and $799,000 in 2006. Regulation Our U.S. insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws establish supervisory agencies with broad regulatory authority to regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of each of the states in which they are licensed. U.S. laws, such as the U.S.A. Patriot Act of 2001, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, are examples of U.S. regulation that affect our business. Our insurance products and thus our businesses also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws. The purpose of the laws and regulations that affect our insurance business is primarily to protect our insureds and not our stockholders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, insurance regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general) periodically make inquiries and regularly conduct examinations regarding compliance by us and our subsidiaries with insurance, and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted. At the present time, our insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to transact business in 32 states. We have insurance subsidiaries domiciled in the states of Colorado, Louisiana and Texas. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentration of investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, statutes and regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the approval of policy forms and related materials and the approval of rates for certain types of insurance products. All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries conduct insurance business have enacted legislation that requires each U.S. insurance company in a holding company system, except captive insurance companies, to register with the insurance regulatory authority of its jurisdiction of domicile and to furnish that regulatory authority financial and other information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These laws and regulations also regulate transactions between insurance companies and their parents and affiliates. Generally, these laws and regulations require that all transactions within a holding company system between an insurer and its affiliates be fair and reasonable and that the insurer’s statutory capital and surplus following any transaction with an affiliate be both reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. Statutory surplus is the excess of admitted assets over the sum of statutory liabilities and capital. For certain types of agreements and transactions between an insurer and its affiliates, 12 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES these laws and regulations require prior notification to, and non-disapproval or approval by, the insurance regulatory authority of the insurer’s jurisdiction of domicile. The payment of dividends or other distributions to us by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by the insurance laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile. The laws and regulations of some of these jurisdictions also prohibit an insurer from declaring or paying a dividend except out of its earned surplus or require the insurer to obtain regulatory approval before it may do so. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contract holders. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled require that a controlling party obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of the insurance company’s jurisdiction of domicile prior to acquiring control of the insurer. Risk-based capital requirements are imposed on life and property and casualty insurance companies. The risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as defined, by its authorized control level risk-based capital. Companies that do not meet certain minimum standards require specified corrective action. The risk-based capital ratios for CICA, Security Plan and CNLIC exceed such minimum ratios. At December 31, 2007, all of our insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring company or regulatory action at any prescribed RBC action level. Many of our independent marketing consultants also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or to distribute our products. Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks with respect to our Company. Readers should review these risks, together with the other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties we have described in this report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem not material, may also adversely affect our business. Any of the risks discussed in this report or that are presently unknown or not material, if they were to actually occur, could result in a significant adverse impact on our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business A substantial amount of our revenue comes from foreign residents. This involves risks associated with the possible application of foreign insurance and securities laws and regulations to our business, as well as risks from political and economic instability and currency transfer restrictions. A substantial part of our insurance policy sales are from foreign countries, primarily those located in Latin America. There is a risk that we may lose a significant portion of these sales should adverse events occur in these countries. We do not accept insurance applications outside of the United States. All of our assets are in the United States and all policy premiums must be paid to us in U.S. Dollars drawn on U.S. banks. As a result, we have never qualified to do business in any foreign country and have never submitted our insurance policies issued to foreign residents for review by any insurance regulatory agency. We sell our policies to foreign residents using foreign independent marketing firms and consultants, and we rely on those persons to comply with applicable laws in selling our products and offering policyholders the opportunity to participate in our stock investment plan, which is administered in the United States by our transfer agent. The government of a foreign country could determine that its residents may not buy life insurance from us unless we became qualified to do business in that country or unless our policies purchased by its residents receive prior approval of its insurance regulators. If this were to occur, our policy sales to that country’s residents would cease before any such approvals could be obtained. Also, there is no assurance that we 13 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES would be able to qualify to do business in any foreign country or that its insurance regulatory authorities would approve our policies. We could also face sanctions, including fines and penalties, if a country’s authorities determined any failure to qualify or otherwise comply with its laws was willful or ongoing, and we decided to continue making policy sales through independent marketing consultants to that country’s residents. Any of the foregoing could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we do not determine whether the independent marketing consultants are required to be licensed to sell insurance in the countries in which they make insurance sales. If our marketing consultants were not in compliance with applicable laws, including licensing laws, they could be required to cease operations, which would reduce our revenues and materially, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdictions with respect to these matters. The offer and sale of our class A common stock under our stock investment plan is registered under the Securities Act. Many of our foreign policyholders invest certain cash benefits they receive with respect to their policies in our class A common stock through our investment plan, which is not registered in any foreign jurisdiction. Prior to October 2005, many of our foreign policyholders assigned these cash benefits to two non-U.S. trusts for the purpose of accumulating ownership of our class A common stock. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdiction as to whether any such participation by foreign residents is subject to foreign securities laws or regulations or whether the independent marketing consultants are subject to licensing requirements in connection with the foregoing investments. If a securities regulatory authority were to determine the offer and sale of our class A common stock were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, we could be faced with cease and desist orders, fines and penalties. We are unable to quantify the effect of foreign regulation on our business if regulation were to be imposed on us, but we believe we could expend substantial amounts of time and incur substantial expense in complying with any foreign regulation, and we may decide to avoid a market if regulation were imposed. Additionally, if economic or political crises were to occur in any of the countries where our foreign policyowners reside, our revenues would likely decline. For example, Argentina underwent a severe recession in the mid 1990s. As a result, the lapse rates of our insureds residing in Argentina increased significantly, and our new insurance business generated there declined dramatically. Also, currency control laws, regulations and decrees in foreign countries, if implemented, could adversely affect our revenues by imposing restrictions on fund transfers outside of a country where our insureds reside. While our management has more than 30 years of experience in writing life insurance policies for foreign residents without any significant regulatory action or any lengthy currency controls relating to our foreign resident insureds, there can be no assurance that such situations will not occur and that our revenues, results of operations and financial condition will not be materially, adversely affected if they do occur. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims and we may be required to establish additional reserves, which in turn may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated exposure for claims relating to our issued insurance policies. Reserves, whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, or statutory accounting practices prescribed by various state insurance regulators, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions that are determined by various regulatory entities. Many reserve assumptions are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. In addition, when we acquire other domestic life insurance companies, our assessment of the adequacy of acquired policy liabilities is subject to our estimates and assumptions. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops, and adjustments to reserves are reflected in our statements of operations for the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, future developments may require us to increase claims reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the period in which such increase is made. 14 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the costs of customer relationships acquired, which would increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2007, we had $100.7 million of deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. DAC represents costs that vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under GAAP, DAC is amortized to income over the lives of the underlying policies, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums. In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies. This intangible asset, called the cost of customer relationships acquired, or CCR, represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies. At December 31, 2007, we had $31.6 million of CCR. We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC. Our amortization of DAC and CCR generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance expense margins. For example, if our insurance policy lapse and surrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, or if actual persistency proves to be less than our persistency assumptions, especially in the early years of a policy, we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy. We regularly review the quality of our DAC and CCR to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, surrender and other policy changes, mortality, morbidity, lapses or persistency may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or CCR, or both, or to record a current period expense to increase benefit reserves, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire various life insurance companies over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the “reporting unit” level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected earnings or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of earnings by a reporting unit at a lower rate than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current-period expense. We performed assessments of whether goodwill was impaired on December 31, 2006 and wrote off $1.0 million of goodwill in 2006. No impairment of goodwill was identified in 2005 or 2007. We are a defendant in lawsuits, which may adversely affect our financial condition and detract from the time our management is able to devote to our business, and we are subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory matters. We and/or certain of our insurance subsidiaries are defendants in five lawsuits described in Item 3 of this report which, if determined adversely to us or our subsidiaries, could expose us to class action damages which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operating and financial condition. These lawsuits are in various stages of discovery and procedural processes, and it is not possible to evaluate potential monetary exposure to us or our subsidiaries. In addition, litigating these cases is costly and can be time consuming for our Company. 15 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Reinsurers with which we do business could increase their premium rates and may not honor their obligations, leaving us liable for the reinsured coverage. We reinsure certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even if highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain replacement reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts or at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling or unable to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. In addition, our reinsurance facilities may be cancelled, pursuant to their terms, upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including a change of control of our Company (generally defined as the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting equity securities) or the failure of our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain the minimum required levels of statutory surplus. Any of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. For the majority of our business, we retain only the first $100,000 of risk on any one life and cede the remaining risk to our reinsurers. In 2007, we reinsured $274 million of face amount of our life insurance policies, and in 2006 we reinsured $259 million of face amount of our life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in 2007 and 2006 represented 5.7% and 5.6%, respectively, of the face amount of life insurance in effect in both years. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in premium rates, under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for reinsurance. If our cost of reinsurance were to increase, we might not be able to recover these increased costs, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Although our reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable to our policyholders as the direct insurer with respect to all reinsured risks. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to the credit risks of our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, underwriting results or investment returns may affect its ability to fulfill its reinsurance obligations to us. Our receivable from reinsurers was $16.0 million at December 31, 2006 and $13.5 million at December 31, 2007. In addition, effective January 1, 2004, we entered into a coinsurance agreement with an unaffiliated company under which the Company assumed substantially all of the accident and health insurance policies issued by the various insurance companies we have acquired since 1987. At December 31, 2007, the coinsurance company had established statutory accounting liabilities for these policies of $6.2 million. We have established trust accounts totaling $6.8 million for payment to the coinsurance company for claims under these policies. To the extent the sums in the trust accounts are not sufficient to cover claims under such policies and the coinsurance company does not meet its obligations under the coinsurance agreement, we remain liable to the policyholders. We may not be able to continue our past strategy of acquiring other U.S. life insurance companies, and we may not realize improvements to our financial results as a result of our past or any future acquisitions. We have acquired 14 U.S. life insurance companies since 1987. Our objective in this strategy has been to increase our assets, revenues and capital, improve our competitive position and increase our earnings, in part by realizing certain operating efficiencies associated with economies of scale. Prior to 2004, increases in earnings from the completed acquisitions were not significant. We evaluate possible acquisitions of other insurance companies on an ongoing basis. While our business model is not dependent primarily upon acquisitions, the time frame for achieving or further improving our market positions can be shortened through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions presenting opportunities for continued growth and operating efficiencies will be available to us, or that we will realize the anticipated financial results from the acquisitions we do complete. 16 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Even if we identify and complete insurance company acquisitions, we may be unable to integrate them on an economically favorable basis. Implementation of an acquisition strategy entails a number of risks, including, among others: • inaccurate assessment of liabilities, contingent liabilities or the adequacy of claims reserves; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; • failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • an increase in indebtedness and a limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed; and • adverse changes in the economies of geographic regions in which the businesses of our acquisitions are concentrated, due to natural disasters, changing population demographics, governmental actions and other causes. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our international and domestic operations face significant competition. Our international marketing plan focuses on making available U.S. Dollar-denominated life insurance products to high net worth, high income individuals residing in more than 35 countries. New competition could cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates thereby adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Although there are some impediments facing potential competitors that wish to enter the foreign markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into these markets may occur, affording our customers reason to change to other insurance providers. We experience competition primarily from the following sources with respect to our business with foreign residents, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have: • Foreign operated companies with U.S. Dollar policies. We face direct competition from companies that operate in the same manner as we operate in our international markets. These competitors include National Western Life Insurance Company, Best Meridian Insurance Company and, to a lesser extent, Pan American Life Insurance Company and American International Group. • Companies foreign to the countries in which policies are sold but that issue local currency policies. Another group of our competitors in the international marketplace consists of companies that are foreign to the countries in which the policies are sold but issue life insurance policies denominated in the local currencies of those countries. Local currency policies provide the benefit of assets located in the country of foreign residents but entail risks of uncertainty due to local currency fluctuations as well as the perceived instability and weakness of local currencies. • Locally operated companies with local currency policies. We compete with companies formed and operated in the country in which our foreign insureds reside. Generally, these companies are subject to risks of currency fluctuations, and they primarily use mortality tables based on experience of the local population as a whole. These mortality tables are typically based on significantly shorter life spans than those we use. As a result, the cost of insurance from these companies tends to be higher than ours. Although these companies typically market their policies to a broader section of the population than do our independent marketing firms and consultants, there can be no assurance that these companies will not endeavor to place a greater emphasis on our target market and compete more directly with us. In the United States, we compete with more than 1,000 other life insurance companies of various sizes. The life insurance business in the United States is highly competitive, in part because it is a mature industry that, in recent years, has experienced little to no growth in life insurance sales. Many domestic life insurance companies have substantially greater financial resources, longer business histories and more diversified lines of insurance coverage than we do. These companies also have larger sales forces than we have. Competition 17 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES in the United States has also increased recently because the life insurance industry is consolidating, with larger, more efficient organizations emerging from the consolidation. In addition, legislation became effective in 2000 that permits commercial banks, insurance companies and investment banks to combine. This legislation permits, for instance, a commercial bank to acquire or form an insurance company. We believe these factors have increased competitive pressures in the life insurance market in general. In addition, from time to time, companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices, or for other reasons. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in any of our markets. If we do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our products may be reduced if we are unable to establish and maintain commercial relationships with independent marketing firms and consultants attract and retain employee agents or develop and maintain our distribution sources. We distribute our insurance products through several distribution channels, including independent marketing firms and consultants and our employee agents. These relationships are significant for both our revenues and our profits. In our life insurance segment, we depend almost exclusively on the services of independent marketing firms and consultants. In our home service insurance segment, we depend on employee agents whose role in our distribution process is critical in developing and maintaining client relationships. Significant competition exists among insurers to form relationships with marketers of demonstrated ability. Some of our competitors may offer better compensation packages for marketing firms, consultants and agents and broader arrays of products and have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower cost structures and greater financial strength or claims paying ratings than we do. We compete with other insurers for marketing firms, independent consultants and employee agents primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services. Any reduction in our ability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of the services of our senior management team would likely hinder development of our operating and marketing programs and our strategy for expanding our business. We rely on the active participation of our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Harold E. Riley (age 79), and our Vice Chairman of the Board and President, Rick D. Riley (age 54), in connection with the development and execution of our operating and marketing plans and strategy for expanding our business. We anticipate that their expertise will continue to be of substantial value in connection with our operations. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a significant adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not have an employment agreement with either of these persons nor do we carry a key-man insurance policy on either of their lives. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States, which increases our costs of doing business and could restrict the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business as well as anti-money laundering regulations adopted under the U.S. Patriot Act. Insurance company regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to the stockholders of the regulated insurance companies. To that end, the laws of the various states in which we do business establish insurance regulatory agencies with broad powers with respect to such things as: • licensing companies to transact business; • authorizing lines of business; • mandating capital and surplus requirements; • imposing dividend limitations; • approving changes in control; • licensing agents and distributors of insurance products; 18 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES • placing limitations on the minimum size and certain other provisions of life insurance contracts; • restricting companies’ ability to enter and exit markets; • admitting statutory assets; • mandating certain insurance benefits; • restricting companies’ ability to terminate or cancel coverage; • requiring companies to provide certain types of coverage; • regulating premium rates, including the ability to increase premium rates; • approving policy forms; • regulating trade and claims practices; • imposing privacy requirements; • establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; • restricting certain transactions between affiliates; • mandating assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds; • regulating market conduct and sales practices of insurers and their marketing agents; and • restricting contact with consumers, such as the recently created national “do not call” list, and imposing consumer protection measures. The capacity for an insurance company’s growth in premiums is partially a function of its statutory regulatory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by a company’s state of domicile, is considered important by insurance regulatory authorities. Failure to maintain required levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action by regulatory authorities. Most insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, suspend and revoke licenses and approvals, and could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, including acquisitions of other insurance companies, require us to add capital to our insurance company subsidiaries, or fine us. If we are unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, or if our U.S. domestic insurance business is determined not to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Patriot Act, or a relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Changes in U.S. regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and limit our prospective growth. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not regulate directly the insurance business. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can materially and adversely affect insurance companies, including our Company. These areas include the U.S. Patriot Act, financial services regulation, securities regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. Our failure to maintain effective information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep up to date with technological advances. This is particularly important in our life insurance operations, where our information systems are critical to the operation of our business. Our failure to update these systems to reflect technological advancements or to protect our systems may adversely affect our business. We must maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If we do not maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including: • inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserve decisions; 19 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES • the loss of existing customers; • difficulty in attracting new customers; • disputes with customers and our independent marketing firms, consultants and employee agents; • regulatory problems, such as failure to meet prompt payment obligations; • litigation exposure; and • increases in administrative expenses. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and controls over financial reporting. To the extent that we may have not remedied these weaknesses or fail to maintain our current system of internal controls to an effective level with regard to material weaknesses we may identify, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. As a result, we could be required to restate our financial statements and be exposed to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation from investors and others. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we are unable to provide reliable financial reports, we could become subject to SEC and other regulatory review and sanctions, as well as litigation that could result in substantial fines, penalties or liabilities, and our results of operations and financial condition, and the market value of our securities, could be materially and adversely affected as a result. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Our failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of customers, subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. We also have legal obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors. These obligations generally include protecting confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: • monitoring our record retention plans and policies and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; • maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and • limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain current information. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that we deliver a notice regarding our privacy policy both at the delivery of an insurance policy and annually thereafter. Certain exceptions are allowed for sharing of information under joint marketing agreements. However, certain state laws may require us to obtain a policyholder’s consent before we share information. We have, and maintain, a written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, loss of reputation and litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The insurance industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively impact our financial results. We interface with and distribute our products to individual consumers. There may be a perception that these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our products, thereby subjecting us to periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if another insurance company engages in 20 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may result in lower sales of insurance, increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and impede our ability to market our products. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. General economic, financial market and political conditions may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions, both in the United States and in the foreign countries where our policy owners reside. These conditions include economic cycles such as: • insurance industry cycles; • levels of employment; • levels of consumer spending; • levels of inflation; • movements of the financial markets, • fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy, demographics; and • legislative and competitive changes. During periods of economic downturn, our insureds may choose not to purchase our insurance products, may terminate existing policies or contracts, permit them to lapse or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by applicable laws and regulations in the amounts of fees, dividends and other distributions they may make to us. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us in sufficient amounts for us to conduct our operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations or expand our business. As a holding company, our principal asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely primarily on statutorily permissible payments from our insurance company subsidiaries, principally through service agreements we have with our subsidiaries, to meet our working capital and other corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make payments to us is subject to regulation by the states in which they are domiciled, and these payments depend primarily on approved service agreements between us and these subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the statutory surplus (which is the excess of assets over liabilities as determined under statutory accounting practices prescribed by an insurance company’s state of domicile), future statutory earnings (which are earnings as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices) and regulatory restrictions. Generally, the net assets of our insurance company subsidiaries available for dividends are limited to the greater of the subsidiary net gain from operations during the preceding year and 10% of the subsidiary’s net statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities. Total capital and surplus of CICA as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $51.6 million. Based upon statutory net gain from operations and surplus of CICA for the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately $4.8 million of dividends could be paid to us in 2008 without prior regulatory approval. In late 2007, SPLIC paid a $4.6 million dividend to CICA. Also, Funeral Homes of America paid a $255,000 dividend to CICA. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors and stockholders. If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, liquidates or otherwise reorganizes, our creditors and stockholders will have no right to proceed in their own right against the assets of that subsidiary or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. 21 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock The price of our class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our class A common stock price is likely to fluctuate in the future and could decline materially because of the volatility of the stock market in general and as a result of a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; • interest rate fluctuations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • valuations of similarly situated companies in our industry; • our failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • actions or announcements by our competitors; • competition and other factors affecting the life insurance business generally; and • conditions in the U.S. and world economies. Our class A common stockholders will not control us for the foreseeable future, will have a limited ability to influence our business policies and corporate actions and will not by themselves be able to elect any directors. It is difficult for our minority stockholders to elect any of our directors or otherwise exert influence over our business. Holders of our outstanding class B common stock are entitled to elect a simple majority of our board of directors and therefore control our Company. All of our class B common stock is currently owned indirectly by the Harold E. Riley Trust of which Harold E. Riley, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, is the sole trustee. Additionally, Harold E. Riley holds approximately 8.9% of the outstanding shares of our class A common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable state insurance laws, may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as various state insurance laws, may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. As a result, our stockholders will be prevented from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our class A common stock that may be offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. The following provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for our class A stockholders to replace or remove our directors and have other anti-takeover effects that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt: • holders of shares of our class B common stock elect a simple majority of our board of directors, and all of these shares are owned by the Harold E. Riley Trust; and • our board of directors may issue one or more series of preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. State insurance laws generally require prior approval of a change in control of an insurance company. Generally, such laws provide that control over an insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, an insurance commissioner generally will consider such factors as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. In addition, a person seeking to acquire control of an insurance company is required in some states to make filings prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and the target insurance company and their affiliates have sufficiently large market shares in particular lines of insurance in those states. These 22 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control involving us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or most of our stockholders might consider to be desirable and in which our stockholders may receive a premium. We have never paid any cash dividends on our class A common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our class A common stock, as it is our policy to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. There are a substantial number of shares of our class A common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of a large number of these shares could cause the market price of our class A common stock to fall. There were 43,070,092 shares of our class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2007. Members of our management and other affiliates owned approximately 5,800,000 shares of our class A common stock as of this date, representing approximately 13.5% of our outstanding class A common stock. These shares have been registered for public resale and may be sold freely. In addition, a total of 3,347,039 shares of our class A common stock are issuable upon the conversion of our series A-1 and series A-2 preferred stock and the exercise of warrants granted in connection therewith. We have a registration statement currently in effect that allows the public resale of all such shares of class A common stock. If our preferred and common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our class A common stock, the market price of shares of our class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of our class A common stock could depress the market price of our class A common stock. Holders of our series A preferred stock may obtain the right to require us to redeem their series A preferred stock and we will be required to redeem any shares of series A preferred stock that remain outstanding on July 12, 2009. We will be required to redeem any shares of our series A preferred stock that remain outstanding on July 12, 2009 at the original investment price, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends. We can elect to pay the redemption price in shares of our class A common stock if: • the average closing price of the stock is in excess of $3.50 per share for a period of ten consecutive trading days prior to (but not including) the date that is three trading days prior to the date of redemption; • the stock is listed on NYSE or other eligible market; and • the stock to be issued is registered under a registration statement effective with the SEC. We intend to pay the redemption price of our series A preferred stock in shares of our class A common stock to the extent the conditions described above are satisfied and we are permitted to do so. The number of shares of our class A common stock that we issue to redeem these shares of series A preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on the book value of the shares of class A common stock held by existing holders. However, provisions of our series A preferred stock could require us to pay part or all of the redemption price in cash, rather than in shares of our class A common stock, under certain circumstances, including failure to meet the conditions described above. The provisions of our series A preferred stock require that if (i) the closing price of our class A common stock for any 42 trading days, including a period not less than five consecutive trading days, is less than $4.80, or (ii) we issue class A common stock or common stock equivalents for less than $6.11 per share, then the holders of our series A preferred stock may require us to redeem their shares of series A preferred stock at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid 23 Table of Contents CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES dividends thereon to the date of payment. If we are required, or elect, to redeem shares of our series A preferred stock for cash, we may have to curtail our growth and acquisition plans. Provisions applicable to our series A preferred stock may make it more difficult or prevent us from raising funds or taking certain other actions. Provisions applicable to the outstanding shares of our series A preferred stock trigger rights of first refusal or payment provisions and require us to obtain the approval of the holders of such shares to (i) incur debt or allow liens on our property, other than certain permitted debt and liens, (ii) amend our articles of incorporation so as to affect adversely any rights of the preferred shareholders, (iii) authorize or create a new class of stock that will be senior or equal to our series A preferred stock in terms of dividends, redemption or distribution of assets or (iv) take other specified actions. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to take certain corporate actions and could delay, deter or prevent future financings. In all other offerings of our shares of class A common stock, such as a private placement of shares, unless certain limited exceptions apply, the holders of our series A preferred stock will generally be entitled to purchase up to 50% of the number of shares of our class A common stock offered by us. These preemptive rights could delay, deter or prevent future equity financings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 