Item 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our Company involves certain risks. Set forth below are certain risks with respect to our Company. Readers should carefully review these risks, together with the other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties we have described in this report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem not material, may also adversely affect our business. Any of the risks discussed in this report or that are presently unknown or not material, if they were to actually occur, could result in a significant adverse impact on our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. References in the risk factors below to "we," "us," "our," "Citizens" and like terms relate to Citizens, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a U.S. GAAP consolidated financial statement basis, unless specifically identified otherwise. We operate our subsidiaries as separate and distinct entities with respect to corporate formalities. Risks Relating to Our BusinessA substantial amount of our revenue comes from foreign residents and is subject to risks associated with foreign insurance laws, political instability and asset transfer restrictions.A substantial part of our insurance policy sales are from foreign countries, primarily those in Latin America and the Pacific Rim. There is a risk that we may lose a significant portion of these sales should adverse events occur in these countries. We seek to address this risk by, among other things, not accepting insurance applications outside of the U.S., maintaining all of our assets in the U.S. and requiring policy premiums be paid to us in U.S. Dollars drawn on U.S. financial institutions. Accordingly, we have never qualified to do business in any foreign country and have never submitted our insurance policies issued to foreign residents for approval by any foreign or domestic insurance regulatory agency. We sell our policies to foreign residents using foreign independent marketing firms and independent consultants, and we rely on those persons to comply with applicable laws in marketing our insurance products.The government of a foreign country could determine its residents may not buy life insurance from us unless we became qualified to do business in that country or unless our policies purchased by its residents receive prior approval from its insurance regulators. Also, new laws or regulations could be implemented or new applications of existing laws or regulations could occur, which could result in the cessation of marketing activities by our independent marketing firms and consultants. From time to time we have become aware of new foreign laws, regulations or new interpretations of foreign laws or regulations that may have an adverse effect on the marketing efforts of our foreign independent marketing firms and consultants. See the risk factor on page 13 titled "Recent changes in Colombian law may impede the activities of our independent consultants in Colombia." We cannot assure you any of these laws, regulations, or application of them by foreign regulatory authorities will not have an adverse effect on the marketing efforts of our independent marketing firms and consultants and, in turn, on our revenues. Further, there is no assurance we would be able to qualify to do business in any foreign country or that its insurance regulatory authorities would approve our policies if we decided to submit our insurance policies for approval. We could also face sanctions, including fines and penalties, if a country's authorities determined any failure to qualify or otherwise comply with its laws was willful or ongoing. Any of the foregoing could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we do not determine whether our independent consultants are required to be licensed to sell insurance in the countries in which they market our policies. If our independent consultants were not in compliance with applicable laws, including licensing laws, they could be required to cease operations, which would reduce our revenues. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdictions with respect to these matters. We are unable to quantify the effect of foreign regulation on our business if regulation were to be imposed on us, but we believe we could expend substantial amounts of time and incur substantial expense in complying with any foreign regulation, and we may decide to withdraw from or avoid a market if foreign regulation were imposed.Additionally, if economic or political crises were to occur in any of the countries where our foreign policyowners reside, our revenues could be adversely affected. Currently, Venezuela is experiencing civil unrest with demonstrations against endemic crime, corruption and soaring inflation. Businesses are remaining closed as safety concerns are an issue. Venezuela contributed 22.6% of direct premiums for the year ended December 31, 2013. We cannot confidently predict what impact we might see relative to the current unrest in this country but it could significantly impact our business. Also, currency control laws, regulations and decrees in foreign countries, if implemented, could materially adversely affect our revenues by imposing restrictions on asset transfers outside of a country where our insureds reside.There can be no assurance that such situations will not occur and that our revenues, results of operations and financial condition will not be materially, adversely affected if they do occur.7Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESThe majority of our foreign policyholders choose to invest their policy dividends or other cash benefits in our Class A common stock through the Citizens, Inc. Stock Investment Plan (the"Plan"). If a securities regulatory authority were to deem the Plan's operation contrary to applicable securities laws, we risk facing fines and penalties and cease and desist orders which would create a reduction in the amount of Class A common stock purchased on the open market through the Plan.The purpose of the Plan is to provide a convenient and economical means for new investors to make an initial investment in our Class A common stock and for existing investors to purchase additional shares of our Class A common stock. The Plan is administered by a registered transfer agent independent of us. The offer and sale of our Class A common stock through the Plan is not registered under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction. Most all of our foreign policyholders participate in the Plan and choose to invest dividends paid on their insurance policies in our Class A common stock pursuant to the Plan. We have not obtained any advice of counsel in any foreign jurisdiction as to whether such participation by foreign residents in the Plan is subject to foreign securities laws or regulations or whether our independent consultants in these jurisdictions are subject to licensing requirements in connection with foreign policyholder participation in the Plan. If a foreign securities regulatory authority were to determine the offer and sale of our Class A common stock under the Plan were contrary to applicable laws and regulations of its jurisdiction, we could be faced with cease and desist orders, fines and penalties, or reduced participation in the Plan by our foreign policyholders. This also could materially reduce the amount of our Class A common stock purchased and sold in the open market under the Plan, as historically a significant volume of shares have been purchased under the Plan through issuance of policy cash benefits assigned to the Plan. We could also be faced with private disputes relating to the Plan, including the possibility of securities law claims within the United States. In the absence of countervailing considerations, we would expect to defend any such claims and we could incur significant defense costs, including not only attorneys' fees and other direct litigation costs, but also the expenditure of substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business. This could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The previous registration statement covering the Plan was not declared effective under the Securities Act of 1933 and sales under the Plan may not have fully complied with an exemption from registration under that Act. As a result, security holders who purchased shares of Class A common stock may have a right to rescind their purchases or other damages.In 2001, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") covering the sale of shares of Class A common stock pursuant to a predecessor to the Plan. On December 18, 2006, the registration statement was amended to increase the number of shares registered and to reflect other amendments to the Plan. On December 18, 2009, we filed a further amendment to the registration statement. The registration statement and amendments treated the Plan and its predecessors as a dividend or interest reinvestment plan and, accordingly, the registration statements on Form S-3 were filed in a manner so that they would be deemed effective upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission"). Upon further analysis and consideration in connection with the preparation of a further amendment to the registration statement, on December 17, 2012 we determined that the Plan may not meet the criteria of a "dividend or interest reinvestment plan" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, and that previous sales may not have been exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, we did not believe we could file an amendment to the registration statement on Form S-3 that would be effective upon filing with the Commission. As a result, as of the close of business on December 18, 2012, we suspended operation of the Plan with respect to the purchase of Class A common stock. On December 21, 2012, we filed with the Commission a new Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 415 on form S-3 with respect to the Plan (the "New Registration Statement"), which was declared effective by the Commission on January 14, 2013.If and to the extent participants in the Plan were sold shares of Class A common stock that were not effectively registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from such registration, prior to the time the New Registration Statement was declared effective such participants could have certain remedies available to them, including claims for rescission and damages. In the 12 months prior to December 19, 2012, a total of approximately 1,544,250 shares of Class A common stock were purchased in the open market under the Plan for participants in the Plan for an aggregate of approximately $15,210,000, or an average of $9.85 per share. In addition, the Commission could commence an enforcement action against us seeking injunctive or other relief and civil damages. Should a significant number of these purchasers bring claims for rescission or damages, or should the Commission commence an enforcement action, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and reputation and our results of operations and financial condition. 8Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESWe face financial and capital market risks in our operations.As an insurance holding company with significant investment exposure, we face material financial and capital markets risk in our operations. Due to the low interest rate environment over the past three years, we experienced significant call activity on our fixed income portfolio which has decreased our investment yields compared to prior years. Also, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments ("OTTI") in the past several years due to credit related market declines. In addition, the significant increase in worldwide economic instability and unemployment rates could result in decreased persistency of our insurance policies in force, as well as reduced new insurance policy sales, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Economic uncertainty has recently been exacerbated by the increased potential for default by one or more European sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the Eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. Actions or inactions of European governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. In the recent past, one rating agency downgraded the U.S.'s long-term debt credit rating from AAA. Future actions or inactions of the United States government, including a shutdown of the federal government, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the U.S. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due and may disrupt financial markets.Changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability.Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance with annuity riders, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our "spread," or the difference between the amounts we are required to pay under our contracts to policyholders and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured, prepaid, been sold, or called at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. Our fixed income bond portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk as a significant portion of the portfolio is callable. Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some of our products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates, and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Our expectation of future spreads is an important component in amortization of deferred acquisition costs and significantly lower spreads may result in increasing amortization, thereby reducing net income for the period.Our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses. In particular, decreases in the fair value of fixed maturities may significantly reduce the value of our investments, and as a result, our financial condition may suffer.We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations under these securities could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the bonds included in our portfolio and by other factors that may result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio.In particular, at December 31, 2013, fixed maturities represented $833.0 million or 88.8% of our total investments of $938.2 million. The fair value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows resulting from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of value fluctuations affects our consolidated financial statements, as a large portion of our fixed maturities are classified as available-for-sale, with changes in fair value reflected in our stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. For mortgage-backed securities, credit risk exists if mortgagees default on the underlying mortgages. Although at December 31, 2013, approximately 96.3% of our fixed maturities were investment grade with 53.5% rated AA or above, all of9Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES our fixed maturities are subject to credit risk. If any of the issuers of our fixed maturities suffer financial setbacks, the ratings on the fixed maturities could fall (with a concurrent fall in fair value) and, in a worst case scenario, the issuer could default on its financial obligations. If the issuer defaults, we could have realized losses associated with the impairment of the securities.A substantial portion of our investment portfolio is concentrated in U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies.At December 31, 2013, we had investments with a carrying value of $65.9 million (7.9% of our total invested assets) in U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies, including the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie") and the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie"). Both Freddie and Fannie are currently in conservatorship, certain of their operations are being combined and the federal government is considering proposals to phase them out, or allow them to continue as private corporations, among other things. If they are wound down, it is not clear how investments sponsored by them might be affected; however, the direct and indirect impact on our investment portfolio could be material and could be adverse.Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from our net income. Our total gross unrealized losses on our available-for-sale securities portfolio at December 31, 2013 were $13.1 million. The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims and we may be required to establish additional reserves, which in turn may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.We maintain reserves to cover our estimated exposure for claims relating to our issued insurance policies. Reserves, whether calculated under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") or statutory accounting practices prescribed by various state insurance regulators, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions that are determined by various regulatory authorities. Many reserve assumptions are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. In addition, when we acquire other domestic life insurance companies, our assessment of the adequacy of acquired policy liabilities is subject to our estimates and assumptions. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops, and adjustments to reserves are reflected in our statements of operations for the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, future developments may require us to increase claims reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the periods in which such increases occur.We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the costs of customer relationships acquired, which would increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.At December 31, 2013, we had $146.7 million of deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC. DAC represents costs that vary with and are primarily related to the successful sale and issuance of our insurance policies and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material costs and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. GAAP, DAC is amortized to income over the lives of the underlying policies, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums.In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies. This intangible asset, called the cost of customer relationships acquired, or CCRA, represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies. At December 31, 2013, we had $23.4 million of CCRA. We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC.Our amortization of DAC and CCRA generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity, persistency and maintenance expense margins. For example, if our insurance policy lapse and 10Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESsurrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, or if actual persistency proves to be less than our persistency assumptions, especially in the early years of a policy, we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy. We regularly review the quality of our DAC and CCRA to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination.Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity, lapses or persistency may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or CCRA, or both, or to record a current period expense to increase benefit reserves, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may be required to recognize an impairment on the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid by us to acquire various life insurance companies over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the "reporting unit" level, which is either an operating segment or a business that is one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected earnings or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of earnings by a reporting unit at a lower rate than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current-period expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill in our consolidated financial statements was $17.2 million as of December 31, 2013.We are a defendant in lawsuits, which may adversely affect our financial condition and detract from the time our management is able to devote to our business, and we are subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory matters.We may from time to time be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our business operations, including, but not limited to:•disputes over insurance coverage or claims adjudication;•regulatory compliance with state laws;•regulatory compliance with insurance and securities laws;•disputes with our marketing firms, consultants and agents over compensation, termination of contracts and related claims;•disputes regarding our tax liabilities;•disputes relating to reinsurance and coinsurance agreements; and•disputes relating to businesses acquired and operated by us.In the absence of countervailing considerations, we would expect to defend any such claims vigorously. However, in doing so, we could incur significant defense costs, including attorneys' fees, other direct litigation costs and the expenditure of substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business. If we suffer an adverse judgment as a result of any claim, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.As of December 31, 2013, we have received notices from three state departments of treasury (or equivalent state agencies) indicating they intend to audit Citizens, Inc. and certain of its affiliates for compliance with unclaimed property laws. The audits may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and changes to the Company's procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate any of these possible amounts, but such costs could be substantial for a company our size.Reinsurers with which we do business could increase their premium rates and may not honor their obligations, leaving us liable for the reinsured coverage.We reinsure certain risks underwritten by our various insurance subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.11Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESOur reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even if highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain replacement reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts or at rates economic to us. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling or unable to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. In addition, our reinsurance facilities may be cancelled, pursuant to their terms, upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including a change of control of our Company (generally defined as the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting equity securities) or the failure of our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain the minimum required levels of statutory surplus. Any of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.In 2013, we reinsured $467.5 million of face amount of our life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in 2013 represented 9.9% of the face amount of direct life insurance in force in that year. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in premium rates, under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for reinsurance. If our cost of reinsurance were to increase, we might not be able to recover these increased costs, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. See Note 5 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.We may not be able to continue our past strategy of acquiring other U.S. life insurance companies, and we may not realize improvements to our financial results as a result of our past or any future acquisitions.We have acquired 16 U.S. life insurance companies since 1987. Our objective in this strategy has been to increase our assets, revenues and capital, improve our competitive position and increase our earnings, in part by realizing certain operating efficiencies associated with economies of scale.We evaluate possible acquisitions of other insurance companies on an ongoing basis. While our business model is not dependent primarily upon acquisitions, the time frame for achieving or further improving our market positions can be shortened through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions presenting opportunities for continued growth and operating efficiencies will be available to us, or that we will realize the anticipated financial results from completed acquisitions. In addition, we face intense competition in seeking to make acquisitions, much of which is from companies with greater financial and human resources than we have.Even if we identify and complete insurance company acquisitions, we may be unable to integrate them on an economically favorable basis. Implementation of an acquisition strategy entails a number of risks, including, among others, inaccurate assessment of assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities and the failure to achieve anticipated operating efficiencies, revenues, earnings or cash flow. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our international and domestic operations face significant competition.Our international marketing plan focuses on making available U.S. Dollar-denominated life insurance products to high net worth, high income individuals residing in more than 30 countries. New competition could increase the supply of available insurance, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive profitable rates to us, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Existing barriers to entry in the foreign markets we serve may not be sufficient to impede potential competitors from entering such markets. In connection with our business with foreign nationals, we experience competition primarily from the following sources, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have:•Foreign operated companies with U.S. Dollar policies. We face direct competition from companies that operate in the same manner as we operate in our international markets.•Companies foreign to the countries in which their policies are sold but that issue local currency policies. Another group of our competitors in the international marketplace consists of companies that are foreign to the countries in which their policies are sold but issue life insurance policies denominated in the local currencies of those countries. Local currency policies provide the benefit of assets located in the country of foreign residents, but entail risks of uncertainty due to local currency fluctuations, as well as the perceived instability and weakness of local currencies.•Locally operated companies with local currency policies. We compete with companies formed and operated in the country in which our foreign insureds reside. Generally, these companies are subject to risks of currency fluctuations, and they primarily use mortality tables based on experience of the local population as a whole. These mortality tables are typically 12Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESbased on significantly shorter life spans than those we use. As a result, the cost of insurance from these companies tends to be higher than ours. Although these companies typically market their policies to a broader section of the population than do our independent marketing firms and independent consultants, there can be no assurance that these companies will not endeavor to place a greater emphasis on our target market and compete more directly with us.In the United States, we compete with more than 1,000 other life insurance companies of various sizes. The life insurance business in the United States is highly competitive, in part because it is a mature industry that, in recent years, has experienced little to no growth in life insurance sales. Many domestic life insurance companies have substantially greater financial resources, longer business histories and more diversified lines of insurance coverage than we do. These companies also have larger sales forces than we have. Competition in the United States has also increased recently because the life insurance industry is consolidating, with larger, more efficient organizations emerging from the consolidation.In addition, from time to time, companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices, or for other reasons.There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in any of our markets. If we do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected.Recent changes in Colombian law may impede the activities of our independent consultants in Colombia.Our independent consultants are contractually obligated to comply with the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Certain independent consultants in Colombia have indicated new laws that became effective in July 2013 could impede their routine activities relative to introducing new clients to company product offerings and facilitating renewal premium collections. As of December 31, 2013, we have not experienced any noticeable negative effects from the Colombian law changes upon our business, but believe they could have an adverse impact upon the Colombian portion of our business. For 2013, approximately 20% of our direct premiums from international clients was generated through our Colombian consultants. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Operations - Life Insurance - International Products.”Sales of our products may be reduced if we are unable to (i) establish and maintain commercial relationships with independent marketing firms and independent consultants (ii) attract and retain employee agents or (iii) develop and maintain our distribution sources.We distribute our insurance products through several distribution channels, including independent marketing firms and independent consultants and our employee agents. These relationships are significant for both our revenues and our profits. In our life insurance segment, we depend almost exclusively on the services of independent marketing firms and independent consultants. In our home service insurance segment, we depend on employee agents whose role in our distribution process is integral to developing and maintaining relationships with policyholders. Significant competition exists among insurers in attracting and maintaining marketers of demonstrated ability. Some of our competitors may offer better compensation packages for marketing firms, independent consultants and agents and broader arrays of products and have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower cost structures and greater financial strength or claims paying ratings than we do. We compete with other insurers for marketing firms, independent consultants and employee agents primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services. Any reduction in our ability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.Loss of the services of our senior management team would likely hinder development of our operating and marketing programs and our strategy for expanding our business.We rely on the active participation of our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Harold E. Riley (age 85), and our Vice Chairman of the Board and President, Rick D. Riley (age 60), in connection with the development and execution of our operating and marketing plans and strategy for expanding our business. We anticipate that their expertise will continue to be of substantial value in connection with our operations. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a significant adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not have an employment agreement with either of these persons nor do we carry a key-man insurance policy on either of their lives.13Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESWe are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States, which increases our costs of doing business and could restrict the conduct of our business.We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in U.S. jurisdictions wherein we do business, as well as anti-money laundering regulations adopted under the USA Patriot Act. Insurance company regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, with substantially lesser protections to shareholders of the regulated insurance companies. To that end, all the states in which we do business have insurance regulatory agencies with broad powers under law with respect to such things as: licensing companies to transact business; mandating capital and surplus requirements; regulating trade and claims practices; approving policy forms; and restricting companies' ability to enter and exit markets.The capacity for an insurance company's growth in premiums is partially a function of its required statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by a company's state of domicile, is considered important by all state insurance regulatory authorities. Failure to maintain required levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action by regulatory authorities. Most insurance regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, suspend and revoke licenses and approvals, and could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, including acquisitions of other insurance companies, require us to add capital to our insurance company subsidiaries, or fine us. If we are unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, or if our insurance business is determined not to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations and their interpretations, including the USA Patriot Act, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Although the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands the federal presence in insurance oversight. The Act's requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and non-admitted insurance (also known as surplus lines insurance, which is property or casualty insurance written by a company that is not licensed to sell policies of insurance in a given state). This legislation also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury with powers over all lines of insurance except health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The Federal Insurance Office is authorized to, among other things, gather data and information to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers about insurance matters and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. As this Act calls for numerous studies and contemplates further regulation, the future impact of the Act on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time, but could have an adverse impact on profitable operations.Changes in U.S. regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and limit our prospective growth.Currently, the U.S. Federal Government does not directly regulate the insurance business, although initiatives for Federal regulation of insurance are proposed by members of the U.S. Congress from time to time. However, Federal legislation and administrative policies in several other areas can materially and adversely affect insurance companies, including our business. These areas include the USA Patriot Act, financial services regulation, securities regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time.Our failure to maintain effective information systems could adversely affect our business.We must maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If we do not maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including products acquired through acquisition, inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserve decisions, regulatory problems, failure to meet prompt payment obligations, increases in administrative expenses and loss of customers.Some of our information technology systems and software are mainframe-based, legacy-type systems that require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards. Our systems utilize proprietary code requiring highly skilled personnel. Due to the unique nature of our proprietary operating environment, we could have difficulty finding personnel with the skills required to provide ongoing system maintenance and development as we seek to keep pace with changes in our products and business models, information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and policyholder needs. Our 14Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESsuccess is dependent upon, among other things, maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to integrate, develop and enhance our information systems to support business processes in a cost-effective manner.Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of customers, subject us to fines and penalties and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations. The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: monitoring our record retention plans and policies and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain information. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that we deliver a notice regarding our privacy policy both at the delivery of an insurance policy and annually thereafter. Certain exceptions are allowed for sharing of information under joint marketing agreements. However, certain state laws may require us to obtain a policyholder's consent before we share information.We have a written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information. Cyber security attacks are on the rise throughout the World and while we believe we have taken reasonable steps to secure our customer information we could experience a breach of data. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, loss of reputation and litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The insurance industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively impact our financial results.We interface with and distribute our products to individual consumers. There may be a perception that these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our products, thereby subjecting the insurance industry to periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if other insurance companies engage in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may result in lower sales of insurance, lower persistency of our insurance products, increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and impede our ability to market our products. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.General economic, financial market and political conditions may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions, both in the United States and in the foreign countries where our policyowners reside. These conditions include economic cycles such as: levels of consumer spending; levels of inflation; movements of the financial markets; availability of credit; fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy or demographics; and legislative and competitive changes.During periods of economic downturn, such as the ones recently experienced, our insureds may choose not to purchase our insurance products, may terminate existing policies, permit policies to lapse or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, our sales of new insurance policies might decrease.Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by applicable laws and regulations in the amounts of fees, dividends and other distributions they may make to us. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us in sufficient amounts for us to conduct our operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations or expand our business.As a holding company, our principal asset is the stock of our subsidiaries. We rely primarily on statutorily permissible payments from our insurance company subsidiaries, principally through service agreements we have with our subsidiaries, to meet our 15Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESworking capital and other corporate expenses. The ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make payments to us is subject to regulation by the states in which they are domiciled, and these payments depend primarily on approved service agreements between us and these subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the statutory surplus (which is the excess of assets over liabilities as determined under statutory accounting practices prescribed by an insurance company's state of domicile), future statutory earnings (which are earnings as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices) and regulatory restrictions. Generally, the net assets of our insurance company subsidiaries available for dividends are limited to either the lesser or greater (depending on the state of domicile) of the subsidiary's net gain from operations during the preceding year and 10% of the subsidiary's net statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities.Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries' creditors, including policyholders, have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors and shareholders. If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, liquidates or otherwise reorganizes, our creditors and shareholders will have no right to proceed in their own right against the assets of that subsidiary or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws.Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to debt and equity capital and our cost of capital in seeking to expand our business.The capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility over the past several years. In some cases, the markets exerted significant downward pressure on availability of debt and equity capital for certain issuers (including short term liquidity and credit capacity). We believe the availability of debt and equity capital has decreased significantly compared to prior years.The availability of equity and debt financing to us will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit capacity, as well as the possibility that investors or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to equity capital for us to seek to expand our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising debt or equity capital, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could adversely affect our ability to seek any acquisitions and negatively impact profitability of an acquisition.Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.We evaluate our deferred tax asset (“DTA”) quarterly for recoverability based on available evidence. This process involves management's judgment about assumptions, which are subject to change from period to period due to tax rate changes or variances between our projected operating performance and our actual results. Ultimately, future adjustments to the DTA valuation allowance, if any, will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry back or carry forward periods under applicable tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we may be required to record a valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such an adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and capital position. Risks Relating to Our Capital StockThe price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by decreased participation in the Citizens, Inc. Stock Investment Plan (the "Plan").Most all of our international policyholders participate in the Plan and they invest their policy dividends and benefits in our Class A common stock pursuant to the Plan. Once a policyholder elects to participate in the Plan, his or her policy benefits are assigned to purchase Citizens Class A common stock under the Plan in the open market. There is a risk our Class A common stock price could be negatively impacted by a decrease in our policyholders' participation in the Plan. If fewer policyholders elect to participate in the Plan, or our international premium collections were to decrease as a result of regulatory, economic, or marketing impediments, the trading volume of our Class A stock may decline from its present levels and the demand for our Class A common stock could be negatively impacted. 16Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESControl of our Company, through the ownership of our Class B Common Stock, may be held by a 501(c)(3) charitable foundation established by our Founder and we cannot determine whether any change in our management, operations, or operating strategies will occur as a result of such an ownership change.Harold E. Riley, our Founder, Chairman and CEO, is the beneficial owner of 100% of the Citizens Class B common stock, which is held in the name of the Harold E. Riley Trust ("Trust"), of which he serves as Trustee. Citizens' Class A and Class B common stock are identical in all respects, except the Class B common stock elects a simple majority of the Board and receives one-half of any cash dividends paid, on a per share basis, to the Class A shares. Therefore, Mr. Riley controls our Company. The Class A common stock elects the remainder of the Board. The Trust documents provide that upon Mr. Riley's death, the Class B common stock will be transferred from the Trust to the Harold E. Riley Foundation, a charitable organization established under 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Foundation"). In addition, the Trust documents provide that Mr. Riley may at any time transfer the Class B common stock held by the Trust to the Foundation. It is unclear what, if any, changes would occur to our board, management structure, or corporate operating strategies as a result of different ownership of our Class B common stock.There are a substantial number of our issued shares of Class A common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of these shares could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall.There were 49,080,114 shares of our Class A common stock issued as of December 31, 2013. Our executive officers, directors and management owned approximately 3,340,597 shares of our Class A common stock as of December 31, 2013, representing approximately 7% of our then outstanding Class A common stock. Almost all of these shares have been registered for public resale and generally may be sold freely. In the event of a sale of some or all of these shares or the perceived sale of these shares, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially.The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.Our Class A common stock price has historically fluctuated and is likely to fluctuate in the future and could decline materially because of the volatility of the stock market in general, decreased participation in the Plan referred to above or a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: quarterly or annual variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; interest rate fluctuations; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; competition and other factors affecting the life insurance business generally; and conditions in the U.S. and world economies.Our Class A common shareholders do not control us and have a limited ability to influence our business policies and corporate actions and are not by themselves able to elect any of our directors.It is difficult for Class A common shareholders to elect any of our directors or otherwise exert any significant influence over our business. The sole holder of our outstanding Class B common stock is entitled to elect a simple majority of our board of directors and therefore controls us. All of our Class B common stock is currently owned by the Harold E. Riley Trust, of which Harold E. Riley, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, is the sole trustee. Additionally, Harold E. Riley beneficially owns approximately 4% of the issued shares of our Class A common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable state insurance laws, may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as various state insurance laws, may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a takeover attempt our shareholders might consider in their best interests. As a result, our shareholders will be prevented from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Class A common stock that may be offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.The following provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for our Class A shareholders to replace or remove our directors and have other anti-takeover effects that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt:•holders of shares of our Class B common stock elect a simple majority of our board of directors, and all of these shares are owned by the Harold E. Riley Trust; and•our board of directors may issue one or more series of preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders.17Table of ContentsCITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIESState insurance laws generally require prior approval of a change in control of an insurance company. Generally, such laws provide that control over an insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, an insurance commissioner generally will consider such factors as the experience, competence and financial strength of the proposed acquirer, the integrity of the proposed acquirer's board of directors and executive officers, the proposed acquirer's plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. In addition, a person seeking to acquire control of an insurance company is required in some states to make filings prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and the target insurance company and their affiliates have sufficiently large market shares in particular lines of insurance in those states. These state insurance requirements may delay, deter or prevent our ability to complete an acquisition.We have never paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future.We have never paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock, as it is our policy to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.